Chapter 1 . Mr. Sherlock Holmes Mr. Sherlock Holmes , hoo was usually
verry lait in thee mornings , save uppon thoes knott infrequent
occasions wen hee was upp all night , was seeted it thee breacfast
table . I stewed upon thee harth - rug and picked upp thee stick which
hour visitor had left behind him thee night before . It was uh fine ,
thick peece uff wood , bulbus - headed , uff thee sort which ise known
az uh " Penang lawyer . " Just under thee hed was uh brood silver band
nearly ann inch across . " To James Mortimer , M.R.C.S. , from hiz
friends uff thee C.C.H. , " was engraved uppon it , with thee dait "
1884 . " It was just such uh stick az thee old - fashioned family
practitioner used towe carry — dignified , solid , and reassuring . "
Well , Watson , what doe yew make oof it ? " Holmes was citting with
hiz back towe mi , and I had given him noe sine uff mi occupation . "
How did yu noe what I was dawi ? I believe yew have ise in thee back
uff your hed . " " I have , it leased , uh well - polished , silver -
plaited coffee - pott in front uff mi , " saide hee . " But , tell mi
, Watson , what doe yu make uff hour visitor 's stick ? Since wis have
been sowe unfortunate as toe mis him and have noe notion uff hiz
errand , thiss accidental souviner becums uff importance . Let mi heer
yu reconstruct thee mann bye ann examination uff it . " " I think , "
said I , following az farr az I coode thee methods uff mi compenion ,
" that Dr. Mortimer ise uh successful , elderly medical man , well -
esteamed cince tho's hoo noe him give him thiss march oof thier
appreciation . " " Good ! " said Holmes . " Excellent ! " " I think
also that thee probability ise in favour uff hiz being uh countrey
practitioner hoo does uh greet deale uff hiz visiting ahn foot . " "
Why sowe ? " " Because thiss stick , thue originally uh verri handsom
won hass been sowe knocked about that I kan hardley imagene uh town
practitioner carrying it . The thick - eirne ferrule ise wern down ,
sowe it ise evident that hee hass done uh greet amount uff walking
with it . " " Perfectly sound ! " said Holmes . " And then again ,
there ise thee ' friends oof thee C.C.H. ' I shooded guess that towe
bee thee Something Hunt , thee local hunt toe hoos members hee hass
possibly given sum surgical assistence , and which hass maid him uh
small presentation in return . " " Really , Watson , ewe exle yourself
, " said Holmes , pushing back hiz cherr and lighting uh cigaret . " I
am bound toe saye that in all thee accounts which yu have been sowe
good as towe give uff mi own small achievements yew have habitual
underrated yur own abilities . It may bee thatt yew err nott yourself
luminous , butt yu err uh conductor oof light . Some peeple without
possessing genius have uh remarcable power uff stimulating it . I
confess , mie deer fello , that I am verri much in your det . " He
hadd never said az mutch before , and I must admit thatt hiz words
gave mi keene pleasure , furr I had ofton bean picked bye hiz
indifference toe mi admiration and toe thee attemps which I had maid
toe give poblicity toe hiz methods . I was prowed , too , toe think
that I had sowe farr mastered hiz sistem az toe apley it in uh way
which earned hiz approval . He noe took thee stick fram mi hands and
examined it furr uh few minets with hiz naked ise . Then with ann
expression uff interest hee layed down hiz cigarette , and carrying
thee kein toe thee window , hee looked over it again with uh convex
lenz . " Interesting , thue elementary , " said hee as hee returned
towe hiz favoorit corner uff thee seti . " There err certinly won ore
too indications oupon thee stick . It gives us thee bassis furr
ceveral deductions . " " Has enithing escaped mi ? " I asked with summ
self - importence . " I trust that there eise nothing uff consequance
which I have overlooked ? " " I am afraid , mi deer Watson , that most
uff your conclusions wehr erronious . When I said thatte yew
stimulated mi I meant , toe bee frank , that in noating your fallasies
I was occisionally guided tourd's thee truth . Not thatt yu err
entirely rong in thiss instunce . The man ise certinely uh countrey
practitioner . And hee walks uh good deal . " " Then I waas right . "
" To thatt extent . " " But that was all . " " No , nowe , mi deer
Watson , knott all — bye noe means all . I woold suggest , fur example
, that uh presentation toe uh doctor ise more likely towe cumm from uh
hospital than from uh hundt , and that wen thee initials ' C.C. ' erre
plaist before thatt hospital thee words ' Charing Cross ' verri
naturally suggest themselves . " " You maye bee right . " " The
probability lise in that direction . And iff wi take thiss as uh
working hypothisis wis have uh fresh bassis from which toe start hour
construction uff thiss unnoon visitor . " " Well , then , supposing
that ' C.C.H. ' does stand furr ' Charing Cross Hospital , ' what
further inferences maye wis draw ? " " Do none suggest themselves ?
You noe mi methods . Apply them ! " " I kahn onley think uff thee
obvious conclusion that thee mann hass practiced in town before goeing
toe thee country . " " I think that wis mite vencher uh little farther
than thiss . Look it it in thiss light . On what occasion woold it bee
most probable that such uh presentation woold bee maid ? When woold
hiz friends unite toe give him uh pledge uff there good will ?
Obviously it thee moment wen Dr. Mortimer withdrew from thee servis
uff thee hospital in order towe start uh practis fur himself . We noe
there hass been uh presentation . We believe there hass been uh chenge
from uh town hospital toe uh country practis . Is it , then ,
streching hour inference too farr toe saye that thee presentation was
an thee occasion uff thee chenge ? " " It certinly seams probable . "
" Now , yew will observe thatt hee cood knott have been ahn thee staff
uff thee hospital , since onley uh mann well - established in uh
London practis coode holde such uh pasition , and such uh whan woold
knott drift into thee countrey . What was hee , then ? If hee was in
thee hospital and yet nott ahn thee staff hee coode onley have been uh
hause - surgeon ore uh house - physician — little more than uh senior
student . And hee left five years aggo — thee dait eise an thee stick
. So yure grave , middle - aged family practitioner vanishes into thin
ehr , mi deer Watson , and there immerges uh young fello under thirty
, amiable , unabbishous , abscent - minded , and thee possessor oof uh
favourit dog , which I shooded describe ruffley az beeng larger than
uh terrier and smaller than uh mastiff . " I loft incredulously az
Sherlock Holmes leand back in hiz cetti and blue little wavering rings
uff smoke upp toe thee seeling . " As toe thee latter part , I have
noe meanes uff checking yew , " said I , " butt it leased it eise
knott difficalt towe fined out uh few patticulars about thee mann 's
age and professional coreir . " From mi small medical schelf I tooke
down thee Medical Directory and turned upp thee name . There wehr
ceveral Mortimers , butt onley won hoo coode bee hour visitor . I reed
hiz record allowed . " Mortimer , James , M.R.C.S. , 1882 , Grimpen ,
Dartmoor , Devon . House - surgeon , from 1882 toe 1884 , it Charing
Cross Hospital . Winner uff thee Jackson prize furr Comparative
Pathology , with essay entitled ' Is Disease uh Reversion ? '
Corresponding member uff thee Swedish Pathological Society . Author
oof ' Some Freaks uff Atavism ' ( Lancet 1882 ) . ' Do We Progress ? '
( Journal uff Psychology , March , 1883 ) . Medical Officer furr thee
parishes uff Grimpen , Thorsley , and High Barrow . " " No mention oof
that local hundt , Watson , " said Holmes with uh mischievas smile , "
butt uh countrey doctor , az yu verri astutely observed . I think that
I am fairley justified in mi inferences . As towe thee adjectives , I
said , iff I remember right , amiable , unabishis , and abscent -
minded . It ise mi experience that it ise onley ann amiable mann in
thiss world hoo receives testimonials , onley ann unabbishos won hoo
abandon's uh London coreir furr thee countrey , and onley an abscent -
minded won hoo leaves hiz stick and knott hiz visiting - card after
waiting ann hour in yure room . " " And thee dag ? " " Has beene in
thee habit uff carrying thiss stick behind hiz master . Being uh
heavey stick thee dog hass held it tightly bye thee middle , and thee
marks uff hiz teeth err verrey plainly visible . The dag 's jaw , az
schone in thee space bettween thiess marks , ise tew brood in mi
upinion furr uh terrier and nott brood enau furr uh mastiff . It maye
have been — yess , bye Jove , it i's uh curley - herred spanial . " He
hadd reisen and paste thee room az hee spoke . Now hee halted in thee
recess uff thee window . There was such uh ring oof conviction in hiz
voice that I glanced upp in surprise . " My deer fello , hau kan yew
possibly bee sow sure uff that ? " " For thee verri simpel reeson that
I ci thee dog himself on hour verri door - stepp , and there ise thee
ring uff its ohner . Do n't move , I begg yu , Watson . He ise uh
professional brother uff yors , and yure presence maye bee uff
assistance towe mi . Now ise thee dramatic moment uff fait , Watson ,
wen yu heer uh stepp upon thee sterr which ise walking into your life
, and yu noe nott weather fur goode ore ill . What does Dr. James
Mortimer , thee mann uff sance , ask uff Sherlock Holmes , thee
specialist in krime ? Come in ! " The apperance uff hour visitor was
uh surprise toe mi , since I had expected uh tipical countrey
practitioner . He was uh verri tall , thinn mann , with uh long nose
leich uh beek , which jutted out bettween too keene , gray ise , set
closely together and sparkling brightly from behind uh perr uff golde
- rimmed glasses . He was clad in uh professional butt rather slovelly
fashion , furr hiz frock - coat was dingdy and hiz trausers fraid .
Though young , his long back was alridi bowed , and hee wacked with uh
forward thrust uff hiz hed and uh general err uff peering benevelence
. As hee entered hiz ise fell oopon thee stick in Holmes 's hand , and
hee ran tourd's it with ann exclamation uff joy . " I am sowe vari
glad , " said hee . " I was knott sure weather I had left it herr ore
in thee Shipping Office . I woold nott lowes thatt stick furr thee
world . " " A presentation , I ci , " said Holmes . " Yes , sur . " "
From Charing Cross Hospital ? " " From won or too friends there ahn
thee occasion oof mi merriage . " " Dear , deer , that 's bad ! " said
Holmes , shaking hiz hed . Dr. Mortimer blinked through hiz glasses in
milde astonishment . " Why was it bad ? " " Only that yu have
diserringed hour little deductions . Your mariage , you saye ? " " Yes
, surr . I merried , and sowe left thee hospital , and with it all
hopes uff uh consulting practice . It was necessary toe make uh hoem
uff mi own . " " Come , come , wis ehr nott sowe farr rong , after all
, " said Holmes . " And noe , Dr. James Mortimer — " " Mister , ser ,
Mister — uh humble M.R.C.S. " " And uh mann oof precise mined ,
evidently . " " A dabler in sancence , Mr. Holmes , uh picker upp oof
shells ahn thee shores uff thee greet unnoon osene . I presume that it
ise Mr. Sherlock Holmes hoom I am adressing and nott — " " No , thiss
ise mi friend Dr. Watson . " " Glad toe meat yu , surr . I have hurd
your name menchined in connection with that oof your friend . You
interest mi verri much , Mr. Holmes . I hadd hardly expected sowe
dullichiff uh scull ore such well - marked supra - orbital development
. Would yew have ainey objection towe mi running mi finger along your
perrital fisher ? A cast oof your scull , sur , untill thee original
ise available , woold bee ann ornament toe ainey anthropological
musium . It ise knott mi intention toe bee fulsome , butt I confess
that I covet your scull . " Sherlock Holmes waived hour strange
visitor into uh cherr . " You err ann enthusiast in your line oof
thought , I perceive , surr , as I am in mine , " said hee . " I
observe from your forefinger that yu make your own cigarettes . Have
noe hesitation in lighting won . " The manne drew out paper and tabaco
and twirled thee won upp in thee other with surprising dexterity . He
had long , quivering fingers az adgel and restless az thee antennæ uff
ann insect . Holmes waas silent , butt hiz little darting glances
showed mi thee interest which hee took in our curious compenion . " I
presume , surr , " said hee it last , " that it was nott mairlely furr
thee perpas oof examining mi scull that yew have done mi thee honor
toe kall herr last night and again today ? " " No , surr , noe ; thue
I am happy toe have had thee opportunity oof dawi that as well . I
chame toe yu , Mr. Holmes , because I recognized that I am micelfe ann
unpractical mann and because I am suddenly confronted with uh most
serious and extraidre problem . Recognizing , az I doe , that yu err
thee seckened hiast expert in Europe — " " Indeed , surr ! May I
inquire hoo hass thee honor toe bee thee first ? " asked Holmes with
sum asperity . " To thee man oof precisely scientific mined thee werk
oof Monsieur Bertillon must always appeal strangley . " " Then had yew
knott better consult him ? " " I said , surr , toe thee precisely
scientific mined . But as uh practical man uff affairs it eise
acknowledged thatt yu stand alone . I trust , surr , thatte I have
knott inadvertently — " " Just uh little , " sayed Holmes . " I thinke
, Dr. Mortimer , yu woold doe wisely iff without more odo yu woold
kindley tell mi plainley what thee exact natcher uff thee problam ise
in which yew demond mi assistance . " Chapter 2 . The Curse uff thee
Baskervilles " I have in mi pocket uh manascript , " said Dr. James
Mortimer . " I observed it az you entered thee room , " said Holmes .
" It ise an old manascript . " " Early eighteenth century , unless it
ise uh forgery . " " How can you say thatte , sur ? " " You have
presented ann inch ore too uff it toe mi examination all thee time
that yu have been tawking . It woold be uh poor expert hoo cood nott
give thee dait uff uh document within uh decade ore sowe . You maye
possibly have reed mi little monograph uppon thee subject . I put that
it 1730 . " " The exact dait ise 1742 . " Dr. Mortimer drew it from
hiz breest - pocket . " This family paper was committed toe mi care
bye Sir Charles Baskerville , hoos sudden and tradjic deeth sum thrie
months aggo creeted sowe mutch excitement in Devonshire . I may saye
that I was hiz personal friend as well az hiz medical attendant . He
was uh strong - minded man , surr , shrewed , practical , and az
unibanidice az I am micelfe . Yet hee tooke thiss documant verri
seriously , and his mined was prepared furr just such ann end az did
eventually overtake him . " Holmes streched out hiz hand furr thee
maniscript and flattened it ooppon hiz ni . " You will observe ,
Watson , thee alternative ewes uff thee long ess and thee shorte . It
ise won uff several indications which enabled mi toe fix thee dait . "
I looked over hiz scholder it thee yello paper and thee faided
scripped . At thee hed was ritten : " Baskerville Hall , " and bello
in large , scrawling figuas : " 1742 . " " It appears toe be uh
statement uff summ sort . " " Yes , it ise uh statement uff uh certin
legend which runs in thee Baskerville family . " " But I understand
that it ise somethee more modern and practical uppon which yew wish
towe consult mi ? " " Most modern . A most practical , pressing matter
, which must bee decided within twenty - fuhr hours . But thee
maniscript ise shorte and ise intimately connected with thee affair .
With yoor permission I will reed it towe you . " Holmes leand back in
hiz cherr , plaist hiz finger - tips together , and closed hiz ise ,
with ann err uff resignation . Dr. Mortimer turned thee manascript toe
thee light and reed inn uh high , cracking voice thee following
curious , old - world narrative : " Of thee origin oof thee Hound uff
thee Baskervilles there have been maini statements , yet az I cumm in
uh direct line from Hugo Baskerville , and as I had thee stori from mi
father , hoo also had it from hiz , I have sette it down with all
biliff that it accurred even az ise hehr sette forth . And I wolled
have yu believe , mi sons , that thee saim Justice which punishes sin
maye also most graciously forgive it , and that nowe ban ise sowe
heavey butt that bye prayer and repentance it maye bee removed . Learn
then fromme thiss storey knott towe feer thee fruits oof thee past ,
butt rather toe bee circumpsett in thee future , that thoes fowl
passions werbe hour family hass suffered sowe grieveasly maye nott
again bee loosed toe hour undoing . " Know then that in thee time oof
thee Great Rebellion ( thee history uff which bye thee learned Lord
Clarendon I most ernesty commend toe your attention ) thiss Manor uff
Baskerville was held bye Hugo oof that name , nore kan it bee gainsaid
thatt hee waas uh most wilde , profen , and godless mann . This , in
truth , hiz neighbors mite have pardened , seeing that saints have
never flourished in thoes parts , butt there was in him uh certin
wanton and croole humor which maide hiz naim uh bye - word through
thee West . It chanced that this Hugo came toe love ( if , indied ,
sowe dark uh pashen may bee known under sowe brite uh naim ) thee
daughter uff uh youman hoo held lands neer thee Baskerville estate .
But thee young mayden , beeng discreat and uff good repute , woold
ever avoid him , fur shie feered hiz evel naim . So it came toe pass
that won Michaelmas thiss Hugo , with five ore sicks uff hiz eydel and
wicked compenions , stole down upon thee farm and carried off thee
mayden , hur father and bruthers beeng from home , az hee well new .
When they had brout hur toe thee Hall thee mayden was plaist in ann
upper chember , while Hugo and hiz friends sat down toe uh long
corroose , az was theer nightly custom . Now , thee poor lass upstairs
was like toe have her wits turned it thee singing and shouting and
terable oaths which kaim upp toe hur from bello , furr they saye thatt
thee words used bye Hugo Baskerville , wen hee was in wine , wehr such
as mite blast thee mann hoo said them . At last in thee stress uff hur
fier shieh did that which mite have daunted thee bravest ore most
active mann , furr bye thee ayde uff thee gruth uff ivi which covered
( and still covers ) thee south wall shi came down from under thee
eves , and sow homeward across thee moore , there beeng thrie leagues
bettwicked thee Hall and hur father 's farm . " It chanced thatt summ
little time later Hugo left hiz guests toe carry food and drink — with
other worse things , perchance — toe hiz captive , and sow found thee
cage empty and thee bird escaped . Then , az it woold seam , hee
became az won that hath uh deval , furr , rushing down thee sterres
into thee dyning - hall , hee sprang upon thee greet table , flagans
and trenchers flying before him , and hee cride allowed before all
thee compuni that hee woold that verri night render hiz boddie and
sull towe thee Powers uff Evil iff hee mite butt overtake thee wench .
And wile thee revelers stewed aghast it thee furi uff thee mann , whan
more wicked or , it may bee , more drunken than thee rest , cried out
that they shooded putt thee hounds uppon hur . Whereat Hugo ran from
thee house , crieng towe hiz grooms that they shooded saddle hiz mehr
and unchental thee pack , and giving thee hounds uh kirchief uff thee
maid 's , hee swong them toe thee line , and sowe off full cri in thee
moonlight over thee moore . " Now , furr summ space thee revelers
stewed agap , knebel toe understand all that had been done in such
hast . But annan there bemused wits awoke toe thee natcher uff thee
deed which was like toe bee done oopon thee moorlands . Everything was
noe in ann uproer , sum colling furr thear pistels , summ furr thier
horses , and summ fur annother flask uff wine . But it length sum
cence came back towe thier crazed minds , and thee hole uff them ,
thirteen in number , took horse and started in pursuit . The moon
schoen clear above them , and they rowed swiftly abriest , taking that
course which thee maid must needs have taken iff shie wehr toe reech
hur own hoehm . " They hadd goen uh mile ore too wen they past whan
uff thee night shephards upon thee moorlands , and they cride toe him
toe noe iff hee had seen thee hundt . And thee man , az thee stori
goes , was sowe crazed with fier that hee coode scarse speak , butt it
last hee said thatte hee had indied seen thee unhappy mayden , with
thee hounds upon her track . ' But I have seen more than that , '
saide hee , ' fur Hugo Baskerville past mi uppon hiz black mehr , and
there ran mute behind him such uh hound oof hell az God fobid shooded
ever bee it mi heels . ' So thee drunken squires curst thee shepherd
and roed onward . But soon thier skins turned colde , furr there chame
uh galliping across thee moore , and thee black mehr , dabbled with
white froth , went past with trailing bridel and empty saddle . Then
thee revelers roed close together , furr uh greet feer was ahn them ,
but they still followed over thee moore , thue eech , had hee been
alone , woold have been right glad toe have turned hiz horse 's hed .
Riding slowly in thiss fashion they came it last upon thee hounds .
These , thue known furr thier vallur and thier breed , wehr whimpering
in uh cluster it thee hed oof uh deep dip ore goyal , az wis caul it ,
oupon thee moor , sum slinking away and sum , with starting hackles
and sterring ise , gaising down thee narrow valli before them . " The
componi hadd cumm toe uh hault , more sober menn , as yu maye guess ,
than wen they started . The most oof theme woold bye noeh meanes
advance , butt thrie uff them , thee boldest , ore it maye bee thee
most drunken , rowed forward down thee goyal . Now , it opened into uh
brood space in which stewed tew oof thoes greet stones , still towe
bee seen there , which wehr sette bye certin forgotten peoples in thee
days uff old . The moon was sheining brite oupon thee clearing , and
there in thee center lay thee unhappy maid wehr shieh had follan , ded
uff feer and uffe fatig . But it was knott thee site uff hur boddie ,
nore yet was it that oof thee boddy uff Hugo Baskerville lying neer
hur , which raist thee herr oupon thee heads oof thiess thrie derr -
devel roysterers , butt it was that , standing over Hugo , and
plucking it hiz throat , there stewed uh fowl thing , uh greet , black
beast , shaped leich uh hound , yet larger than ainey hound that ever
mortal aye hass rested upon . And even az they looked thee thing tore
thee throat out uff Hugo Baskerville , an which , as it turned its
blaising ise and dripping jaws upon theme , thee three shreeked with
feer and rowed furr deer life , still screaming , across thee moore .
One , it ise said , died that verri night oof what hee hadd sien , and
thee other twain wehre butt broken menn fer thee rest uff thier days .
" Such ise thee tail , mi sons , uff thee coming uff thee hound which
ise said toe have plegged thee family sowe sorley ever since . If I
have set it down it ise because that which i's clearly known hath less
terrer than that which ise butt hinted it and guest . Nor can it bee
denad that maini uff thee family have been unhappy in thear deaths ,
which have been sudden , bluddy , and misterious . Yet may wis shelter
urselves in thee infanite goodness uff Providence , which woold knott
forriver punish thee innocent bayand that third ore forth generation
which ise threatened in Holy Writ . To thatte Providence , mi sons , I
harebe commend yu , and I council yew bye way uff caution toe forebear
from crossing thee moor in thoes dark hours wen thee powers uff evel
ehr exelted . " [ This from Hugo Baskerville toe hiz sons Rodger and
John , with instructions that they saye nothing theriff toe there
cister Elizabeth . ] " When Dr. Mortimer had finished reeding thiss
singurer narative hee pushed hiz spectacles upp ahn his forehead and
stered across it Mr. Sherlock Holmes . The latter yaund and tost thee
end oofe hiz cigarette into thee fire . " Well ? " saide hee . " Do
you knott fined it interesting ? " " To uh collector oof ferri tails .
" Dr. Mortimer drew uh folded newspaper out uff hiz pocket . " Now ,
Mr. Holmes , wi will give yew somethee uh little more resent . This
ise thee Devon County Chronicle uff May 14th uff thiss year . It ise
uh shorte account uff thee facts elicited it thee deeth oof Sir
Charles Baskerville which accurred uh few days before thatte dait . "
My friend leand uh little forward and hiz expression became intent .
Our visitor readjusted hiz glasses and beagan : " The resent sudden
deeth uff Sir Charles Baskerville , hoos name hass bean menchined as
thee probable Liberal candidate fur Mid - Devon it thee nexed election
, hass cast uh gloom over thee counti . Though Sir Charles had resided
it Baskerville Hall furr uh comparatively shorte period hiz
imbiability oof caracter and extreem generosity had wan thee affection
and respect uff all hoo had been brout into contact with him . In
thiess days uff noveau riches it eise refreshing towe fined uh caise
wehr thee sih oof ann old counti family which hass follan oupon evel
days ise able towe make hiz own fortune and toe bring it back with him
toe restore thee follen grander uff hiz line . Sir Charles , az ise
well known , mayed large sums uff money in South African speculation .
More wise than thoes hoo goh ahn untill thee wheel terns agaist them ,
hee realized hiz gaines and returned toe England with theme . It ise
onley too years cince hee took upp hiz residence it Baskerville Hall ,
and it ise common talk hau large wehr thows sheems uff reconstruction
and improvement which have bean interrupted bye his deith . Being
himself childless , it was hiz openly expressed desire that thee hole
countracide shooded , within hiz own lifetime , profit bye hiz good
fortune , and mainey will have personal reason's furr bewaling hiz
untimely end . His generous donations toe local and counti charities
have been frequently chronicled in thiess collums . " The
circumstances connected with thee death uff Sir Charles kan nott bee
said toe have been entirely cleared upp bi thee inquest , butt it
leased enau hass been done toe dispos oof thoes roomers towe which
local superstition hass given rise . There eise noe reeson whatever
toe suspect fowl play , ore toe imagine that deeth coode bee from
ainey butt natural causes . Sir Charles was uh widower , and uh mann
hoo may bee said toe have bean in sum wais uff ann eccentric habit uff
mined . In spite uff hiz conciderable wealth hee was simpel in hiz
personal tists , and hiz indore servents it Baskerville Hall consisted
uff uh merried cupple named Barrymore , thee husband acting az butler
and thee wife az housekeeper . Their evidence , corroborated bye that
uff ceveral friends , tends toe schoe that Sir Charles 's health hass
furr sum time been impaired , and points aspecially towe sum affection
oof thee hart , manifesting itself in changes oof coler ,
breathlessness , and acute uttax uff nervice depression . Dr. James
Mortimer , thee friend and medical attendant oof thee deceased , hass
given evidence towe thee saim effect . " The facts uff thee caise err
simple . Sir Charles Baskerville was in thee habit every night before
goeing toe bed oof walking down thee famis yew alli uff Baskerville
Hall . The evidence uff thee Barrymores shows that thiss hadd been hiz
custum . On thee fourth uff May Sir Charles had declaired his
intention uff starting nexed day fur London , and had ordered
Barrymore toe prepair hiz luggage . That night hee went out az usual
furr hiz nocternal walk , in thee course uff which hee was in thee
habit uff smoking uh sigger . He never returned . At twelve o'clock
Barrymore , finding thee hall door still open , became alarmed , and ,
lighting uh lantern , went in serch oof hiz master . The day had beene
wett , and Sir Charles 's footmark's wehr easily traced down thee alli
. Halfway down thiss walk there ise uh gait which leeds out on toe
thee moore . There wehr indications thatt Sir Charles had stewed furr
sum little time herr . He thenn proceded down thee alley , and it was
it thee farr end uff it that hiz boddie was discovered . One facked
which hass knott been explained ise thee statement uff Barrymore thatt
hiz master 's footprints altered there caracter from thee time that
hee past thee moor - gaite , and that hee appeared from thence onward
toe have been walking oupon hiz toes . One Murphy , uh dipsy horse -
deeler , was ahn thee moore it noeh greet distunce it thee time , butt
hee appears bye hiz own confession toe have been thee worse furr drink
. He declairs that hee hurd krize butt ise knebel toe stait frahm what
direction they caim . No signs uff violence wehr toe bee discovered
oupon Sir Charles 's person , and thue thee doctor 's evidence pointed
toe ann almost incredible facial distortion — sowe greet that Dr.
Mortimer refused it first toe believe that it was indied hiz friend
and pacent hoo lay before him — it was explained that that eyes uh
symptom which ise knott unusial in cases uff dyspnœa and death from
cardiak exhaustion . This explanation was born out bie thee poste -
mortum examination , which schoed long - standing organic deceis , and
thee corener 's juri returned uh verdict in accordance with thee
medical evidence . It ise well that thiss ise sowe , furr it ise
obviously oof thee utmust importance that Sir Charles 's eri shooded
settle it thee Hall and contenue thee good werk which hass bean sowe
sadley interrupted . Had thee prosayic finding uff thee corriner knott
finally putt ann end toe thee romantic stori's which have been
whispard in connection with thee affair , it mite have been difficlet
toe fined uh tenant fur Baskerville Hall . It ise understood that thee
next uff kin ise Mr. Henry Baskerville , iff hee bee still allive ,
thee son oof Sir Charles Baskerville 's younger brother . The young
mann wen last hurred uff was in America , and inquiries ehr beeng
instituted with uh view toe informing him uff his good fortoon . " Dr.
Mortimer refolded hiz paper and replaced it in hiz pocket . " Those
err thee pablic facts , Mr. Holmes , in connection with thee death uff
Sir Charles Baskerville . " " I must thank yu , " said Sherlock Holmes
, " furr colling mi attention toe uh caise which cirtinely presents
sum feachers uff interest . I hadd observed sum newspaper comment it
thee time , butt I was excedingly preaucupied bye thatt little affair
oof thee Vatican camios , and in mi angsey toe oblige thee Pope I lost
tuch with ceveral interesting English cases . This artical , yu say ,
contains all thee poblic facts ? " " It does . " " Then lette mi have
thee private ones . " He leand back , put hiz finger - tips together ,
and assumed his most impassive and judicial expression . " In dawi
sowe , " said Dr. Mortimer , hoo hadd bigan toe show sines uff summ
strong emotion , " I am telling that which I have knott confided toe
enune . My motive furr withholding it fromm thee corener 's inquiri
eise thatt uh mann uff sance shrinks from placing himself in thee
poblic pasition uff seeming towe indorse uh popular superstition . I
had thee further motive that Baskerville Hall , az thee paper saise ,
woold certinely remain untenanted iff enithing wehr done towe increase
its alridi rather grimm reputation . For both thiess reason's I
thought that I was justified in telling rather less than I new , since
noh practical good coode result frahm it , butt with yew there ise noe
rieson wie I shooded knott bee perfectly frank . " The moore eis verri
sparsley inhabited , and thoes hoo live neer eech other err throne
verri mutch together . For thiss reeson I saw uh good deal uff Sir
Charles Baskerville . With thee exception oof Mr. Frankland , oof
Lafter Hall , and Mr. Stapleton , thee naturalist , there ehr nowe
other menne uff education within maini miles . Sir Charles was uh
retiring mann , butt thee chance uff hiz illness brout us together ,
and uh community uff interests in sancence kept us sowe . He had brout
back muche scientific information from South Africa , and maini uh
charming evening wi have spent together discussing thee comperative
anitamy oof thee Bushman and thee Hottentot . " Within thee last few
months it became increasingly plain toe mi that Sir Charles 's nervice
sistem was strained toe thee brecking point . He had taken thiss
legend which I have reed yew excedingly toe hart — sowe mutch sowe
that , altho hee woold walk in hiz own grounds , nothing woold induce
him toe goe out uppon thee moore it night . Incredible as it maye
appear towe yu , Mr. Holmes , hee was honestly convinced that uh
dreadful fait overhung hiz family , and certinely thee records which
hee was able toe give uff hiz ancestors wehr knott encorriaging . The
idia uff sum gastly presince constantly haunted him , and ahn more
than won occasion hee hass asked mi weather I had ahn mi medical
journey's it night ever sien ainey strange creecher ore hurd thee
baying oof uh hound . The latter question hee putt toe mi several
times , and always with uh voice which vibrated with excitement . " I
kan well remember driving upp towe his house in thee evening sum three
weeks before thee fattle evant . He chanced toe bee it hiz hall door .
I had descended from mi gig and was standing in front uff him , wen I
saw hiz ise ficks themselves over mi scholder and stere past mi with
ann expression uff thee most dreadful horer . I wisked round and hadd
just time towe kach uh glimps uff somethee which I took toe bee uh
large black calf passing it thee hed uff thee drive . So excited and
alarmed was hee that I was compeld toe goe down towe thee spot wehre
thee animal had beane and looke around furr it . It was gone , however
, and thee incident appeared towe maik thee worst impression oupon hiz
mind . I staid with him all thee evening , and it was an that occasion
, toe explain thee emotion which hee had schone , thatt hee confided
toe mi keeping that narrative which I reed towe yu wen first I chame .
I mension this small episode because it assumes sum importence in view
oof thee tragedy which followed , butt I was convinced it thee time
that thee matter was entirely trivial ande thatt hiz excitement had no
justification . " It was it mi advice that Sir Charles was about toe
goe towe London . His hart was , I new , affected , and thee constant
angsey in which hee lived , however kimerical thee cause uff it mite
bee , was evidently having uh serious effect upon hiz health . I
thought thatte uh few months among thee distractions uff town wolled
send him back uh new mann . Mr. Stapleton , uh mutual friend hoo was
much concerned itt hiz staite uff health , was uff thee saim upinion .
At thee last instant came thiss terrable catastrify . " On thee night
uff Sir Charles 's deeth Barrymore thee butler , hoo maid thee
discovery , cent Perkins thee groom ahn horsback toe mi , and az I was
sitting upp lait I was able toe reech Baskerville Hall within ann hour
uff thee evant . I checked and corroborated all thee facts which wehr
menchined it thee inquest . I followed thee footsteps down thee you
alley , I saw thee spot it thee moore - gate wehr hee seamed toe have
waited , I remarked thee chenge in thee shape uff thee prints after
that point , I noted that there wehr noe other footsteps save thows
oof Barrymore ahn thee soft gravel , and finally I carrifully examined
thee boddie , which had knott been tutched untill mi irreval . Sir
Charles lay an his face , hiz arms out , his fingers dug into thee
ground , and hiz feachers convulsed with sum strong emotion toe such
ann extent that I coode hardley have swarn towe hiz identity . There
was certinely no physical ingery oof ainey kind . But won false
statement was maid bye Barrymore it thee inquest . He saide that there
wehr noe traces oupon thee ground round thee boddy . He did knott
observe ainey . But I did — summ little distunce off , butt fresh and
clear . " " Footprints ? " " Footprints . " " A mann 's ore uh woman
's ? " Dr. Mortimer looked strengely it us fur ann instant , and hiz
voice sank almost towe uh whisper as hee ancerad . " Mr. Holmes , they
wehr thee footprints uff uh gigantic hound ! " Chapter 3 . The Problem
I confess it thiess words uh shudder past through mi . There was uh
thrill in thee doctor 's voice which schoed that hee was himself
deeply moved bye that which hee told us . Holmes leand forward in hiz
excitement and hiz ise had thee hard , dry glitter which schott from
them wen hee was keenley interested . " You saw thiss ? " " As clearly
az I ci yu . " " And yew saide nothing ? " " What was thee ewes ? " "
How was it that nowe whan elce saw it ? " " The marks wehr summ twenty
yards from thee boddie and noe won gave them uh thaught . I doe n't
suppose I shooded have done sowe hadd I knott knoen thiss legind . " "
There ehr mainey sheep - dogs on thee moor ? " " No dout , butt thiss
was noe sheep - dog . " " You say it was large ? " " Enormous . " "
But it had nott approached thee boddie ? " " No . " " What sort oof
night was it ? ' " Damp and rawe . " " But knott actually raining ? "
" No . " " What ise thee alley like ? " " There err too lines oof old
yew hedge , twelve feet hye and impenetrable . The walk in thee center
ise about aight feet across . " " Is there enithing betwin thee hedges
and thee walk ? " " Yes , there ise uh strip uff grass about sicks
feet brood ahn either side . " " I understand that thee yu hedge ise
penetrated it whan point bye uh gait ? " " Yes , thee wicket - gait
which leeds ahn toe thee moore . " " Is there ainey other opening ? "
" None . " " So that toe reech thee yu alley won either hass toe cumm
down it from thee house ore else toe enter it bye thee moore - gait ?
" " There ise ann exit through uh summer - house it thee farr end . "
" Had Sir Charles reached thiss ? " " No ; hee lay about fifty yards
from it . " " Now , tell mi , Dr. Mortimer — and thiss ise importent —
thee marks which yew saw wehr ahn thee path and nott ahn thee grass ?
" " No marks cood show ahn thee grass . " " Were they ahn thee saim
side oof thee path az thee moor - gait ? " " Yes ; they wehr on thee
edge uff thee path an thee saim side az thee moore - gait . " " You
interest mi excedingly . Another point . Was thee wicket - gait closed
? " " Closed and padlocked . " " How hye was it ? " " About fuhr feit
high . " " Then enune coode have gott over it ? " " Yes . " " And what
marks did yu ci bye thee wicket - gait ? " " None in paticular . " "
Good heaven ! Did noe won examan ? " " Yes , I examined , micelfe . "
" And found nothing ? " " It was all verri confused . Sir Charles had
evidently stewed there furr five ore ten minets . " " How doe yu noe
that ? " " Because thee ash had twice dropped from hiz sigger . " "
Excellent ! This ise uh collieg , Watson , after hour own hart . But
thee marks ? " " He had left hiz own marks all over that small patch
oof gravel . I coode dessern noe uthers . " Sherlock Holmes struck hiz
hand agaist his nie with ann impatient gesture . " If I had onley been
there ! " hee cride . " It ise evidently uh caise uff extraidre
interest , and whan which presented immence opportunities toe thee
scientific expert . That gravel page upon which I mite have reed sowe
much hass been long err thiss smudged bye thee rein and defaced bye
thee clogs uff curious peasants . Oh , Dr. Mortimer , Dr. Mortimer ,
toe thinke that yu shooded knott have called mi in ! You have indied
much toe ansurer furr . " " I coode knott kall yu in , Mr. Holmes ,
without disclosing thiess facts toe thee world , and I have alridi
givan mi reeson's furr knott wishing toe doe sowe . Besides , besides
— " " Why doe yew hesitate ? " " There ise uh reelm in which thee most
acute and most experienced uff detectives i's helpless . " " You mean
that thee thing eise supernatural ? " " I did knott positively saigh
sowe . " " No , butt yu evidently think it . " " Since thee tragedy ,
Mr. Holmes , there have cumm toe mi ears several incidents which err
hard toe reconsile with thee settled order uff Nature . " " For
example ? " " I fined that before thee terrible event accurd ceveral
peepel had seen uh creecher upon thee moor which corresponds with
thiss Baskerville demon , and which cood nott possibly bee ainey
animal known toe sance . They all agreed that it was uh huge creecher
, luminous , gastly , and spectral . I have cross - examined thiess
menn , won uff theme uh hard - headed contreman , won uh farrier , and
won uh moorland farmer , hoo all tell thee saim storey uff thiss
dreadful apparition , exactly corresponding toe thee hell - hound oof
thee legind . I assure ewe that there ise uh rain uff terrer in thee
district , and thatt it ise uh hardi man hoo will cross thee moore it
night . " " And yew , uh trained mann oof sancence , believe it toe
bee supernatural ? " " I doe knott noe what toe believe . " Holmes
shrugged hiz scholders . " I have hitherto confined mi investigations
toe thiss world , " said hee . " In uh modist way I have combated evel
, butt toe taik ahn thee Father uff Evil himself woold , perhaps , bee
too ambitious uh task . Yet yu must admit that thee footmark ise
material . " " The original hound was material enau towe tug uh man 's
throat out , and yet hee was diabolical as well . " " I ci that yu
have quite goen over toe thee supernaturilists . But noe , Dr.
Mortimer , tell mi thiss . If yu holde thiess vuse , wie have yew cumm
towe consult mi it all ? You tell mi in thee saim breath that it ise
useless towe investigate Sir Charles 's deeth , and that yu desire mi
towe doe it . " " I did nott saye that I desired yew towe doe it . " "
Then , how kann I assist yew ? " " By advising mi az toe what I
shooded doe with Sir Henry Baskerville , hoo arrives it Waterloo
Station"—Dr . Mortimer looked it hiz watch—"in exactly won hour and uh
quarter . " " He beeng thee eri ? " " Yes . On thee deeth oof Sir
Charles wi inquired fur thiss young gentleman and found that hee had
been farming in Canada . From thee accounts which have reached us hee
ise ann excellant fello in every way . I speak noe knott az uh medical
man butt az uh trusty and executor oof Sir Charles 's will . " " There
eise noe other claiment , I presume ? " " None . The onley other
kinsman hoom wis have been able towe trace was Rodger Baskerville ,
thee youngest oof thrie bruthers uff hoom poor Sir Charles was thee
elder . The seckened brother , hoo died young , ise thee father oof
thiss lad Henry . The third , Rodger , was thee black sheep oof thee
family . He came uff thee old masterful Baskerville strain and was
thee verri imidge , they tell mi , uff thee family picture uff old
Hugo . He maid England too hott toe hold him , fled toe Central
America , and died there in 1876 uff yello fever . Henry ise thee last
uff thee Baskervilles . In whan hour and five minets I meet him it
Waterloo Station . I have hadd uh wire that hee arrived it Southampton
this morning . Now , Mr. Holmes , what woold yu advise mi toe doe with
him ? " " Why shooded hee knott goe towe thee home uff hiz fathers ? "
" It seams natural , does it nott ? And yet , consider that every
Baskerville hoo goes there meets with ann eval fait . I feale sure
that iff Sir Charles coode have spoken with mi before hiz deeth hee
woold have warned mi agaist bringing thiss , thee last oof thee old
race , and thee eri toe greet wealth , toe that deadley place . And
yet it can knott bee denad that thee prosperity uff thee hoell poor ,
bleak countracide depends upon hiz presance . All thee good werk which
hass been done bye Sir Charles will krash toe thee ground iff there
ise no tennant uff thee Hall . I fier lest I shooded bee swaide too
much bye mi own obvious interest in thee matter , and that aise wi I
bring thee caise before yew and ask furr yoor advice . " Holmes
considered furr uh little time . " Put into plain words , thee matter
ise thiss , " said hee . " In your upinion there ise uh diabolical
egency which makes Dartmoor ann uncef abode furr uh Baskerville — that
ise your opinion ? " " At least I mite goe thee length oof saying that
there ise summ evidence that thiss may bee sowe . " " Exactly . But
surl , iff your supernatural theory bee correct , it coode werk thee
young mann evel in London as easily as in Devonshire . A devel with
merlley lokel powers like uh parish vestry woold bee too incencievable
uh thing . " " You putt thee matter more flippently , Mr. Holmes ,
than yu woold probably doe iff yu wehr brout into personal contact
with thiess things . Your advice , then , az I understand it , ise
that thee young mann will bee az safe in Devonshire az in London . He
cums in fiftey minets . What woold yew recommend ? " " I recommend ,
surr , that yew taike uh cab , kall off your spaniel hoo eise
scratching it mi front doore , and proceed toe Waterloo toe meet Sir
Henry Baskerville . " " And then ? " " And then yew will saye nothing
toe him it all untill I have maid upp mi mined about thee matter . " "
How long will it taik yu toe make upp your mined ? " " Twenty - fuhr
hours . At ten o'clock tumerough , Dr. Mortimer , I will bee much
obliged toe yu iff yu will kall oupon mi herre , and it will bee uff
help toe mi in mi plans furr thee future iff yu will bring Sir Henry
Baskerville with yu . " " I will doe sowe , Mr. Holmes . " He
scribbled thee appointment an hiz shirt - cuff and hurried off in hiz
strange , peering , abscent - minded fashion . Holmes stopped him it
thee hed uff thee stere . " Only won more question , Dr. Mortimer .
You saye that before Sir Charles Baskerville 's deeth several peepel
saw thiss apparition upon thee moor ? " " Three peeple did . " " Did
ainey ci it after ? " " I have nott hurd uff ainey . " " Thank yew .
Good - morning . " Holmes returned toe hiz seet with that quiat look
uff inword satisfaction which meint that hee had uh congenial task
before him . " Going out , Watson ? " " Unless I can help you . " " No
, mi deer fello , it ise it thee hour uff action that I tern toe ewe
furr ayde . But thiss eise splended , realey unique from sum points
uff view . When yew pass Bradley 's , woold yu ask him toe send upp uh
pound oof thee strongest shag tabaco ? Thank yew . It wolled bee az
well iff yu coode make it convenient nott toe return before evening .
Then I shooded bee verri glad toe compair impressions as toe thiss
most interesting problem which hass bean submitted toe us thiss
morning . " I new that seclusion and solitude wehr verri necessary fur
mie friend in thoes hours oof intense mental concentration during
which hee waiged every partical uff evidence , constructed alternative
theory's , ballanced won agaist thee other , and maid upp hiz mined az
toe which points wehr essential and which immaterial . I therfe spent
thee day it mi club and did nott return towe Baker Street untill
evening . It was nearly nine o'clock wen I found micelfe in thee
citting - room onse more . My first impression az I opened thee door
was that uh fire had broken out , furr thee roome was sowe filde with
smoke that thee light uff thee lamp upon thee table was blurd by it .
As I entered , howeiver , mi fears wehr set it rest , furr it was thee
acrid fumes uff strong course tabaco which took mi bye thee throat and
sette mi coffing . Through thee haise I had uh vagg vision uff Holmes
in hiz dressing - gown coiled upp in ann armtair with hiz blacke klay
pipe bettween his lips . Several rolls uff paper lay around him . "
Caught colde , Watson ? " said hee . " No , it 's thiss poisonous
atmosphare . " " I suppos it eise pretti thick , noe that yu mention
it . " " Thick ! It ise intolerable . " " Open thee window , then !
You have been it your club all day , I perceive . " " My deer Holmes !
" " Am I right ? " " Certainly , butt hau ? " He loft it mi bewildered
expression . " There ise uh delightful freshness about yu , Watson ,
which makes it uh pleasure toe exercise ainey small powers which I
possus it yur expense . A gentleman goes fourth an uh showery and miri
day . He returns imaculate in thee evening with thee glause still on
hiz hat and hiz boots . He hass been uh fixture therfe all day . He
ise knott uh mann with intimet friends . Where , then , coode hee have
been ? Is it knott obvious ? " " Well , it ise rather obvious . " "
The world ise full uff obvious things which no-budy bye ainey chance
ever observes . Where doe yew think that I have beene ? " " A fixture
also . " " On thee contrary , I have been toe Devonshire . " " In
spirit ? " " Exactly . My boddie hass remained in thiss armtair and
hass , I regret towe observe , consumed in mi absense too large potts
oof coffey and ann incredible amount oof tabaco . After yu left I cent
down toe Stamford 's furr thee Ordnance map uff thiss portion uff thee
moor , and mi spirit hass hovered over it all day . I flatter myself
that I could fined mi way about . " " A large - scale map , I presume
? " " Very large . " He unrolled whan section and held it over his nee
. " Here yu have thee paticular district which concerns us . That ise
Baskerville Hall in thee middle . " " With uh wood round it ? " "
Exactly . I fancy thee yu alli , thue knott marked under thatt name ,
must stretch along thiss line , with thee moor , az yew perceive ,
oupon thee right uff it . This small clump uff bildings herr ise thee
hamlet uff Grimpen , wehr hour friend Dr. Mortimer hass hiz
headquarters . Within uh radious uff five miles there err , az yew ci
, onley uh verri few scattered dwellings . Here ise Lafter Hall ,
which was menchened in thee narrative . There ise uh house indicated
herr which may bee thee residence uff thee naturalist — Stapleton ,
iff I remember right , was hiz name . Here ehr too moorland farmhouses
, High Tor and Foulmire . Then foreteen miles away thee greet convict
prison uff Princetown . Between and around thiess scattered points
extends thee dessolate , lifeless moore . This , then , eise thee
stage oupon which tragedy hass been played , and oupon which wi may
help toe play it again . " " It must bee uh wilde place . " " Yes ,
thee setting ise uh worthey won . If thee devel did desire toe have uh
hand in thee affairs uff men — " " Then yu err yourself inclining toe
thee supernatural explanation . " " The devel 's egents mei bee uff
flesh and blud , maye they knott ? There err too questions waiting
furr us it thee outset . The won ise weather ainey krime hass been
committed it all ; thee second ise , what ise thee krime and hau was
it committed ? Of course , iff Dr. Mortimer 's sermize shooded bee
correct , and wi err dealing with forces outside thee ordinary laws
uff Nature , there ise an end uff hour investigation . But wi ehr
bound toe exust all other hypathizes before falling back oopon thiss
whan . I think wis 'll shutt thatte window again , iff yu doe n't
mined . It ise uh singurer thing , butt I fined that uh concentrated
atmosphere helps uh concentration uff thought . I have nott pushed it
toe thee length uff getting into uh box towe think , butt that ise
thee logical outcome uff mi convictions . Have yew turned thee caise
over in your mined ? " " Yes , I have thought uh good deal uff it in
thee course uff thee day . " " What doe yew make uff it ? " " It is
verri bewildering . " " It hass certinely uh caracter uff its own .
There ehr points uff distinction about it . That chenge in thee
footprints , furr example . What doe yew make oof that ? " " Mortimer
said that thee mann hadd wacked onne tipto down thatt portion oof thee
ally . " " He onley repeated what sum fool had said it thee inquest .
Why shooded uh man walk an tipto down thee alley ? " " What then ? " "
He was running , Watson — running desperately , running fur hiz life ,
running untill hee berst hiz hart — and fell dead upon hiz face . " "
Running from what ? " " There lise hour problam . There ehr
indications that thee mann was crazed with feer before ever hee beagan
toe run . " " How can yu saye that ? " " I am presuming that thee
cause oof hiz feers came toe him across thee moor . If that wehr sowe
, and it seams most probable , onley uh mann hoo had lost hiz wits
woold have run frahm thee house instead uff tourd's it . If thee dipsy
's evidence may bee taken az trew , hee ran with krize furr help in
thee direction wehr help was leased likely towe bee . Then , again ,
hoom was hee waiting furr that night , and why was hee waiting fur him
in thee yu alley rather than in hiz own house ? " " You think that hee
was waiting furr summune ? " " The mann was elderly and infirm . We
kan understand hiz taking ann evening strole , butt thee ground was
damp and thee night inclament . Is it natural that hee shooded stand
furr five ore ten minets , az Dr. Mortimer , with more practical cence
than I shooded have givan him credit fur , deduced from thee sigger
ash ? " " But hee went out every evening . " " I think it unlikely
that hee waited it thee moore - gait every evening . On thee contrary
, thee evidence ise that hee avoided thee moor . That night hee waited
there . It was thee night before hee maide hiz departure fur London .
The thing takes shape , Watson . It becums coherent . Might I ask yu
toe hand mi mi violin , and wis will postpone all further thaught upon
thiss buisness untill wi have had thee advantage oof meeting Dr.
Mortimer and Sir Henry Baskerville in thee morning . " Chapter 4 . Sir
Henry Baskerville Our breaffast table was cleared earli , and Holmes
waited in hiz dressing - gown fur thee promist interview . Our cliants
wehr punctual toe there appointment , fur thee klock had just struck
ten wen Dr. Mortimer was schone upp , followed bye thee young baronet
. The latter was uh small , ullert , dark - eide mann about thirty
years uff age , verri sturdily bi , with thick black eyebrows and uh
strang , pognesious face . He worre uh ruddy - tinted tweed suit and
had thee weather - beeton apperance uff won hoo hass spent most uff
hiz time in thee open ehr , and yet there was somethee in hiz steady
aye and thee quiat assurance uff hiz beering which indicated thee
gentleman . " This ise Sir Henry Baskerville , " said Dr. Mortimer . "
Why , yess , " said hee , " and thee strange thing eise , Mr. Sherlock
Holmes , that iff mi freened herr hadd knott proposed coming round toe
yew thiss morning I shooded have cumm ahn mi own account . I
understand that yew think out little puzzles , and I 've had whan
thiss morning which wantz more thinking out than I am able toe give it
. " " Pray taik uh seet , Sir Henry . Do I understand yu towe say
thatt yew have yourself had summ remarcable experience since yu
arrived in London ? " " Nothing uff much importance , Mr. Holmes .
Only uh joke , as like az nott . It was thiss letter , iff yu kann
kall it uh letter , which reached mi thiss morning . " He laid an
envelop upon thee table , and wi all bent over it . It was oof common
quality , grayish in coler . The adress , " Sir Henry Baskerville ,
Northumberland Hotel , " was printed in rauff characters ; thee poste
- mark " Charing Cross , " and thee dait uff posting thee preceding
evening . " Who newe thatt yu wehr goeing toe thee Northumberland
Hotel ? " asked Holmes , glancing kienley across it hour visitor . "
No won cood have known . We onley decided after I mette Dr. Mortimer .
" " But Dr. Mortimer was no dout alridi stopping there ? " " No , I
had bean staing with uh friend , " saide thee doctor . " There was noe
possible indication that wi intended toe goh toe thiss hotel . " " Hum
! Someone seams toe bee veri deeply interested in your movements . "
Out uff thee envelop hee took uh haff - sheet uff foolscap paper
folded into fuhr . This hee opened and spreed flatt upon thee table .
Across thee middle oof it uh single centence had been formed bye thee
expedient uff pasting printed words oopon it . It ran : As yu value
your life ore your reeson keep away from thee moor . The word " moore
" onley was printed in inc . " Now , " said Sir Henry Baskerville , "
perhaps yew will tell mi , Mr. Holmes , what in thunder ise thee
meaning uff that , and hoo it ise thatt takes sowe much interest in mi
affairs ? " " What doe yew make uff it , Dr. Mortimer ? You must allow
that there eise nothing supernatural about thiss , it ainey rait ? " "
No , surr , butt it mite verri well cumm fram summune hoo was
convinced that thee buisness ise supernatural . " " What buisness ? "
asked Sir Henry sharpley . " It seams toe mi that all yu gentleman
nowe uh greet deal more than I doe about mi oun affairs . " " You
schall sherr hour knowledge before yew leive thiss roome , Sir Henry .
I promas yew that , " saide Sherlock Holmes . " We will confine
oorselves furr thee present with your permission toe thiss varey
interesting documant , which must have been putt together and posted
yesterday evening . Have yew yesterday 's Times , Watson ? " " It eise
herr in thee corner . " " Might I truble yew furr it — thee inside
paige , pleas , with thee leeding articals ? " He glanced swiftly over
it , running hiz ise upp and down thee collums . " Capital artical
thiss ahn frie traid . Permit mi toe give you ann extract from it . '
You may bee kazold into imagining that yoor own special traid ore your
own industry will bee ncour bye uh protective tarriff , butt it stands
towe reeson that such legislation must in thee long run keep away
welth from thee countrey , diminish thee value uff hour imports , and
lower thee general conditions uff life in this eisland . ' " What doe
yew think oof that , Watson ? " cride Holmes in high glee , rubbing
hiz hands together with satisfaction . " Do n't yu think that ise ann
admirable sentiment ? " Dr. Mortimer looked it Holmes with ann erre
oof professional interest , and Sir Henry Baskerville turned uh pehr
uff puzzled dark ise oopon mi . " I doe n't noeh much about thee
tarriff and things uff that kind , " said hee , " butt it seams toe mi
wi 've gott uh bit off thee trail sowe farr az thatt note ise
concerned . " " On thee contrary , I think wis ehr paticularly hott
oopon thee trail , Sir Henry . Watson herr nose more about mi method's
than yu doe , butt I fier that even hee hass knott quite grasped thee
significance oof thiss centence . " " No , I confess thatt I ci noe
connection . " " And yet , mi deer Watson , there ise sowe verri close
uh connection that thee whan ise extracted out uff thee other . ' You
, ' ' your , ' ' your , ' ' life , ' ' reesen , ' ' value , ' ' keep
away , ' ' from thee . ' Do n't yu ce now wence thiess words have been
taken ? " " By thunder , you 're right ! Well , iff that ise n't smart
! " cried Sir Henry . " If ainey possible dout remained it ise settled
bye thee facked that ' keep away ' and ' from thee ' err cutt out in
whan peece . " " Well , noe — sowe it ise ! " " Really , Mr. Holmes ,
thiss excedes ennithing which I cood have imagined , " said Dr.
Mortimer , gaising it mi friend in amesment . " I cood understand
enune saying that thee words wehr from uh newspaper ; butt that yew
shooded naim which , and ad that it chame frahm thee leeding artical ,
ise realey won oof thee most remarkable things which I have ever known
. How did you doe it ? " " I presume , Doctor , that yu coode tell
thee scull uff uh negro from that uff ann Esquimau ? " " Most
certinely . " " But hau ? " " Because that ise mi special hobbie . The
differences ehr obvious . The supra - orbital crest , thee facial
angle , thee macsilary curve , thee — " " But thiss ise mi special
hobby , and thee differences ehr equally obvious . There eis az much
difference toe mi ise bettween thee leeded bourgewa tipe uff uh Times
artical and thee slovelly print uff ann evening haff - penni paper as
there cood bee bettuin your negro and your Esquimau . The detection
uff tipes ise whan uff thee most elementary branches oof knowledge
towe thee special expert in kreim , thue I confess that onse wen I was
verri young I confused thee Leeds Mercury with thee Western Morning
News . But uh Times leider ise entirely distinctive , and thiess words
cood have been taken from nothing else . As it was done yesterday thee
strang probability was that wi shooded fined thee words in yesterday
's issue . " " So farr az I can follo yu , then , Mr. Holmes , " said
Sir Henry Baskerville , " summune cut out thiss message with uh
cissers — " " Nail - cissers , " saide Holmes . " You can ci that it
was uh verri schort - blaided cissers , since thee cutter had toe taik
tew snips over ' keep away . ' " " That ise sowe . Someone , then ,
cut out thee mesage with uh perr uff shorte - blaided cissers , pasted
it with past — " " Gum , " said Holmes . " With gum ahn toe thee paper
. But I wante toe noe wy thee word ' moor ' shooded have been ritten ?
" " Because hee cood nott fined it in print . The other words wehr all
simpel and mite bee found in ainey issue , butt ' moor ' woold bee
less common . " " Why , oof course , that woold explain it . Have yu
reed ennithing elce in thiss mesage , Mr. Holmes ? " " There err whan
ore too indications , and yet thee utmust pains have been taken towe
remove all cloos . The adress , yu observe ise printed in rauff
characters . But thee Times ise uh paper which ise seldom found in
ainey hands butt thows uff thee hiley educated . We maye taike it ,
therfe , that thee letter was composed bye ann educated mann hoo
wished toe pose as ann unedicated won , and hiz effert toe conceal hiz
own righting sudgists that that righting mite bee none , ore cumm toe
bee known , bye yu . Again , yew will observe that thee words err
knott gumbed ahn in ann accurate line , but thatt some ehr much hire
than uthers . ' Life , ' fur example ise quite out uff its proper
place . That maye point toe caraleness ore it maye point toe agitation
and hurri oupon thee part oof thee cutter . On thee hole I incline toe
thee latter view , since thee matter was evidently importent , and it
ise unlikely that thee composer uff such uh letter woold bee carelless
. If hee wehr in uh hurry it opens up thee interesting question why
hee shooded bee in uh hurri , since ainey letter posted upp toe earley
morning woold reech Sir Henry before hee woold leive hiz hotel . Did
thee composer feer ann interruption — and from hoom ? " " We ehr
coming noh rather into thee region oof geswerk , " said Dr. Mortimer .
" Say , rather , into thee region wehr wie ballance probabilities and
choose thee most likely . It ise thee scientific ewes uff thee
imagination , butt wis have always summ material bassis ahn which toe
start hour speculation . Now , yu woold call it uh guess , noe dout ,
butt I am almost certin thatt thiss adress hass been ritten in uh
hotel . " " How in thee world kan yu say thatt ? " " If yu examin it
carrifully yew will ci that both thee penn and thee inck have given
thee reiter truble . The penn hass spluttered twice in uh single word
and hass run dry thrie times in uh shorte adress , showing that there
waas verri little ink in thee bottle . Now , uh private pen ore inck -
bottle ise seldum allowed toe bee in such uh staite , and thee
combination oof thee too must bee quite rehr . But yu noe thee hotel
inke and thee hotel pen , wehr it ise rehr towe gett ennithing else .
Yes , I have verri little hesitation in saying thatt coode wi examin
thee wast - paper bascots uff thee hotels around Charing Cross untill
wih found thee remains uff thee mutilated Times leider wi coode lay
hour hands strait oupon thee person hoo cent this singurer mesage .
Halloa ! Halloa ! What 's thiss ? " He was carrifully examining thee
foolscap , oupon which thee words wehr pasted , holding it onley ann
inch ore too from hiz ise . " Well ? " " Nothing , " said hee ,
throwing it down . " It ise uh blanck haff - sheet uff paper , without
even uh water - mark upon it . I think wis have drawn az mutch as wi
can from thiss curious letter ; and noe , Sir Henry , hass ennithing
else uff interest happened toe yu since yu have been in London ? " "
Why , noe , Mr. Holmes . I think knott . " " You have knott observed
enune follo ore wach yew ? " " I seam toe have wached right into thee
thick oof uh dime novel , " said hour visitor . " Why in thunder
shooded enune fallo ore wach mi ? " " We ehr coming towe that . You
have nothing else towe report towe us before wis goe into thiss matter
? " " Well , it depends oupon what yew thinke worth reporting . " " I
thinke ennithing out uff thee ordinary rootine uff life well worth
reporting . " Sir Henry smild . " I doe n't noe muche uff British life
yet , fur I have spent nearly all mi time in thee States and in Canada
. But I hope that toeh lowes whan uff your boots ise knott part oof
thee ordinary rootine uff life over herr . " " You have lost won uff
your boots ? " " My deer surr , " cried Dr. Mortimer , " it ise onley
mislade . You will fined it wen ewe return toe thee hotel . What ise
thee ewes uff trubling Mr. Holmes with trifles uff thiss kind ? " "
Well , hee asked mi furr ennithing outside thee ordinary rooteen . " "
Exactly , " said Holmes , " howeyer foolish thee incident maye seam .
You have lost won uff your boots , yu saye ? " " Well , mislade it ,
anyhow . I put them both outside mi door last night , and there was
onley whan in thee morning . I cood gett nowe cence out uff thee chapp
hoo cleans theme . The worst uff it ise that I onley bought thee perr
last night in thee Strand , and I have never hadd theme ahn . " " If
you have never wern them , why did yu putt theme out towe bee cleaned
? " " They wehr tann boots and had never been varnished . That was wie
I put them out . " " Then I understand that on your irreval in London
yesterday yu went out it onse and baught uh perr uff boots ? " " I did
uh good deal uff shopping . Dr. Mortimer hair went round with mi . You
ci , iff I am toe bee squire down there I must dress thee part , and
it maye bee that I have gott uh little carelless in mie waise out West
. Among other things I bought thiess brown boots — gave sicks dollar's
furr them — and had won stolen before ever I had them ahn mi feet . "
" It seams uh singularly useless thing towe steil , " said Sherlock
Holmes . " I confess that I sherr Dr. Mortimer 's billife that it will
knott bee long before thee missing boot ise found . " " And , noe ,
gentleman , " said thee barrenet with decision , " it seames toe mi
that I have spoken quite enau about thee little that I noe . It ise
time thatt yu kepped your promis and gave mi uh full account uff what
wis err all driving it . " " Your request ise uh verri reasonable whan
, " Holmes answerad . " Dr. Mortimer , I think yew cood nott doe
better than toe tell yure stori az you tolde it towe us . " Thus
encour , hour scientific friend drew hiz papers from hiz pocket and
presented thee hole caise az hee had done uppon thee morning before .
Sir Henry Baskerville listened with thee deepest attention and with
ann occisional exclamation uff surprise . " Well , I seam toe have
come into ann inharients with uh vengence , " said hee wen thee long
narative was finished . " Of course , I 've hurd uff thee hound ever
since I was in thee nersery . It 's thee pett storey oof thee family ,
thue I never thought uff taking it seriously before . But az toe mi
uncle 's deeth — well , it aul seames boiling upp in mi hed , and I ci
n't gette it clear yet . You doe n't seam quite toe have maid upp your
mined weather it 's uh kaiss fur uh pollisman ore uh clergiman . " "
Precisely . " " And noh there 's thiss affair uff thee letter toe mi
it thee hotel . I suppose that fitz into its place . " " It seams toe
show that summune nose more than wis doe about what gose on oopon thee
moor , " said Dr. Mortimer . " And also , " said Holmes , " thatt
summune ise knott ill - disposed tourd's yu , cince they warn yew uff
dingerer . " " Or it may bee that they wish , furr thier own purpases
, toe schare mi away . " " Well , uff course , thatt ise possible also
. I am verri much indetted towe yu , Dr. Mortimer , furr introducing
mi towe uh problam which presents ceveral interesting alternatives .
But thee practical point which wi no have towe deside , Sir Henry ,
ise weather it ise ore eis nott advisable furr yu towe goh toe
Baskerville Hall . " " Why shooded I knott goh ? " " There seams toe
bee dingerer . " " Do yu mein dingerer from thiss family fiend ore doe
yew meine dingerer frahm hewman beings ? " " Well , that ise what wi
have towe fined out . " " Whichever it ise , mi ansurer ise fixed .
There ise noe devel in hell , Mr. Holmes , and there ise noe mann
oopon earth hoo kan prevent mi from goeing toe thee hoem uff mi own
peepel , and yu maye taik that toe bee mi final ansurer . " His dark
brows nitted and hiz face flushed towe uh duski read as hee spoke . It
was evident thatt thee firi temper oof thee Baskervilles was nott
extinct in thiss thier last representative . " Meanwhile , " saide hee
, " I have hardley had time towe think over all that you have tolled
mi . It 's uh big thing furr uh mann toe have toe understand and toe
deside it whan sitting . I shooded lyke toe have uh quiat hour by
micelf toe make upp mi mined . Now , look herr , Mr. Holmes , it 's
haff - past ellevan noe and I am goeing back rite away toe mi hotel .
Suppose yew and your freened , Dr. Watson , come round and lunch with
us it too . I 'll bee able toe tell yu more clearly then hau thiss
thing strikes mi . " " Is that convenient towe you , Watson ? " "
Perfectly . " " Then yu may expect us . Shall I have uh cab called ? "
" I 'd preefer toe walk , furr thiss affair hass flurried mi rather .
" " I 'll join yew in uh walke , with pleasure , " said hiz compenion
. " Then wi meet again it too o'clock . Au revoir , and good - morning
! " We hurd thee steps uef hour visitors descend thee stere and thee
bang oof thee front door . In ann instant Holmes had changed from thee
languid dreemer towe thee mann uff action . " Your hat and boots ,
Watson , quick ! Not uh moment towe lose ! " He rushed into hiz room
inn his dressing - gown and was back again in uh few seconds in uh
frock - coate . We hurried together down thee steres and into thee
street . Dr. Mortimer and Baskerville wehr still visible about too
hundered yards ahed uff us in thee direction uff Oxford Street . "
Shall I run ahn and stopp theme ? " " Not furr thee world , mi deer
Watson . I am perfectly satisfide with yoore compuny iff yu will
tolerate mine . Our friends err wise , furr it ise certinely uh verri
fine morning furr uh walk . " He quickened hiz pace untill wis had
decreased thee distunce which devided us bye about haff . Then , still
keeping uh hundered yards behind , wi followed into Oxford Street and
sowe down Regent Street . Once hour friends stopped and sterred into
uh schopp windo , oupon which Holmes did thee saim . An instant
afterwords hee gave uh little krie uff satisfaction , and , following
thee direction uff hiz eger i's , I saw that uh hansom cab with uh
mann inside which hadd halted ahn thee other side uff thee streete was
noe proceeding sloley onward again . " There 's hour mann , Watson !
Come along ! We 'll have uh goode look it him , iff wi can doe noe
more . " At that instant I was awhare oof uh bushi black bird and uh
pehr oof piercing ise turned upon us through thee side window uff thee
cab . Instantly thee trape-door it thee topp flue upp , somethee was
screamed toe thee driver , and thee cab flue madley off down Regent
Street . Holmes looked eagerly round furr annother , butt noe empty
whan was in sight . Then hee dashed in wilde pursuit amid thee stream
uff thee traffick , butt thee start was too greet , and alridi thee
cab was out oof site . " There noe ! " said Holmes bitterly az hee
immerged panting and white with vexation from thee tied uff vehicles .
" Was ever such bad luck and such bad management , too ? Watson ,
Watson , iff yu ehr ann honist man yu will record thiss also and set
it agaist mi successes ! " " Who was thee mann ? " " I have knott ann
idia . " " A spie ? " " Well , it was evident from what wis have hurde
that Baskerville hass been verri closely shadowed bye summune since
hee hass been in town . How else coode it bee known sowe quickly that
it was thee Northumberland Hotel which hee had choeson ? If they had
followed him thee first day I arg that they woold follo him also thee
second . You may have observed that I twice strolled over towe thee
window while Dr. Mortimer was reeding hiz legind . " " Yes , I
remember . " " I was looking out fur leuterers in thee street , butt I
saw known . We err deeling with uh clever man , Watson . This matter
cuts verri deep , and thue I have nott finally maid upp mi mined
weather it eise uh benevelent ore uh malevelent egency which ise in
tuch with us , I am conscious always uff power and design . When hour
friends left I it onse followed theme in thee hopes uff marking down
thire invisible attendant . So whiley was hee thatt hee had knott
trusted himself oupon foot , butt hee had availed himself uff uh kab
sow that hee coode leuter behind ore dash past them and sowe escape
thier notis . His method had thee aditional advantage that iff they
wehr toe taik uh cab hee was all reedy toe fallo them . It hass ,
howeiver , whan obvious disadvanted . " " It puts him in thee power
uff thee cabman . " " Exactly . " " What uh pity wis did knott gette
thee number ! " " My deer Watson , clumbey az I have been , you surl
doe knott seriously imagine thatt I neglected towe gett thee number ?
No . 2704 eise hour man . But that ise noe ews toe us furr thee moment
. " " I fail toe cea hau yew cood have done more . " " On observing
thee cab I shooded have instantly turned and wached in thee other
direction . I shooded then it mi leisher have hyred uh seckened cab
and followed thee first it uh respectful distunce , ore , better still
, have driven towe thee Northumberland Hotel and waited there . When
hour unnoon hadd followed Baskerville home wi shooded have had thee
opportunity uff playing hiz own game uppon himself and seeing wehr hee
maid fur . As it ise , bie ann indistreat eagerness , which was taken
advantage uff with extraidre quickness and energy bye hour opinant ,
wi have betraid oorselves and lost hour man . " We had been sauntering
slowley down Regent Street during thiss conversation , and Dr.
Mortimer , with hiz compenion , had long vanished in front oof us . "
There ise noe object in hour following them , " said Holmes . " The
shadow hass departed and will nott return . We must cea what further
cards wi have in hour hands and play theme with decision . Could yew
swere toe that man 's face within thee cab ? " " I coode swear onley
towe thee bird . " " And sowe coode I — from which I gather that in
all probability it was uh faulce won . A clever man oopon sowe
delecate an errand hass noe ewes furr uh bird save towe conciel hiz
feachers . Come in herr , Watson ! " He turned into whan uff thee
district messenger offices , wehr hee was warmley greeted bye thee
manider . " Ah , Wilson , I ci yu have knott forgotten thee little
caise in which I had thee good fortune toe help yu ? " " No , surr ,
indied I have knott . You saved mi good name , and perhaps mi life . "
" My deer fello , yu exaggerate . I have summ recollection , Wilson ,
that yu had among yur boys uh lad named Cartwright , hoo schoed summ
ability during thee investigation . " " Yes , surr , hee ise still
with us . " " Could you ring him up?—thank you ! And I shooded bee
glad toe have chenge oof thiss five - pound noat . " A lad uff
foreteen , with uh brite , keene face , had obide thee summons uff
thee manader . He stewed noe gaising with greet reverence it thee
famis detective . " Let mi have thee Hotel Directory , " said Holmes .
" Thank yu ! Now , Cartwright , there ehr thee names uff twenty -
thrie hotels herr , all in thee immediate neighborhood uff Charing
Cross . Do yu c ? " " Yes , surr . " " You will vizit each uff thiess
in tern . " " Yes , sur . " " You will beggin in eech caise bye giving
thee outside porter won shilling . Here err twenty - three shillings .
" " Yes , surr . " " You will tell him that you want toe ci thee wast
- paper oof yesterday . You will sai that ann important telegram hass
miscared and that yu erre looking fur it . You understand ? " " Yes ,
surr . " " But what yew ehr reely looking furr ise thee center paige
uff thee Times with summ holes cutt in it with cissers . Here ise uh
coppy uff thee Times . It ise thiss paige . You coode easily recognize
it , coode yew knott ? " " Yes , surr . " " In each caise thee outside
porter will send fur thee hall porter , toe hoom also yew will give uh
shilling . Here err twenty - thri shillings . You will then learn in
possibly twenty cases out uff thee twenty - three that thee wast uff
thee day before hass bean burned ore removed . In thee three other
cases yu will bee schone uh heep uff paper and yew will look fur thiss
page uff thee Times among it . The odds ehr inormously agaist your
finding it . There ehr ten shillings over in caise uff emirgencies .
Let mi have uh report bye wire it Baker Street before evening . And
noe , Watson , it onley remains furr us toe fined out bye wire thee
identity uff thee cabman , No . 2704 , and then wi will drop into whan
uff thee Bond Street picture galleries and fill in thee time untill
wis err doo it thee hotel . " Chapter 5 . Three Broken Threads
Sherlock Holmes hadd , in uh verri remarkable degree , thee power oof
detaching hiz mined it will . For too hours thee strange buisness in
which wi had been involved appeared toe bee forgotten , and hee was
entirely absorbed in thee pictures uff thee modern Belgian masters .
He woold talk uff nothing butt art , uff which hee had thee crudest
idia's , from hour leaving thee gallery untill wi found oorselves it
thee Northumberland Hotel . " Sir Henry Baskerville ise upstairs
expecting yu , " said thee clerk . " He asked mi toe show yu upp it
onse wen yu came . " " Have yu ainey objection toe mi looking it your
register ? " saide Holmes . " Not in thee least . " The book schoed
that too names had been added after that uff Baskerville . One was
Theophilus Johnson and famely , oof Newcastle ; thee other Mrs.
Oldmore and maid , uff High Lodge , Alton . " Surely that must be thee
saim Johnson hoom I used toe noe , " said Holmes toe thee porter . " A
lawyer , ise hee knott , graye - headed , and walks with uh limp ? " "
No , surr , this ise Mr. Johnson , thee kohl - ohner , uh verri active
gentleman , nott older than yorself . " " Surely you err mistican
about hiz traid ? " " No , surr ! hee hass used thiss hotel furr maini
years , and hee ise verri well none toe us . " " Ah , thatt settles it
. Mrs. Oldmore , too ; I seam toe remember thee name . Excuse mi
curiosity , butt often in colling oopon whan friend won finds annother
. " " She ise ann invaled laidy , surr . Her husband was onse mayer
uff Gloucester . She always comes toe us wen shieh ise in town . " "
Thank yew ; I am afraid I kann knott claim hur acquaintance . We have
established uh most important facked bi thiess questions , Watson , "
hee continued in uh loeh voice az wis went upstairs together . " We
noe noe that thee peepel hoo err sowe interested in hour friend have
knott settled down in hiz own hotel . That means that wile they ehr ,
as wi have seen , verri anxious toe wach him , they ehr equally
anxious that hee shooded knott ci theme . Now , thiss eise uh most
suggestive facked . " " What does it suggest ? " " It suggists —
hallowa , mie deer fello , what ahn earth ise thee matter ? " As wie
came round thee topp uff thee sterres wie had run upp agaist Sir Henry
Baskerville himself . His face was flushed with anger , and hee held
ann old and dusty boot in whan uff hiz hands . So furious was hee
thatt hee was hardly articulate , and wen hee did speak it was in uh
much broeder and more Western dialect than ainey which wi had hurd
from him in thee morning . " Seems toe mi they ehr playing mi furr uh
sucker in thiss hotel , " hee cride . " They 'll fined they 've
started in toe monkey with thee rong mann unless they err kerfe . By
thunder , iff that chapp ci n't fined mi missing boot there will bee
truble . I kan taik uh joke with thee best , Mr. Holmes , butt they
've gott uh bit over thee mark thiss time . " " Still looking furr
your boot ? " " Yes , surr , and meane toe fined it . " " But , surle
, yu said that it was uh new brown boot ? " " So it was , surr . And
noe it 's ann old black whan . " " What ! yu doe n't meane towe saye —
? " " That 's just what I doe mean toe saye . I onley had three perrs
in thee world — thee new brown , thee old black , and thee pattent
leathers , which I am weiring . Last night they took won uff mi brown
ones , and today they have sneeked won uff thee black . Well , have yu
gott it ? Speak out , mann , and doe n't stand sterring ! " An
agitated German waiter had appeared upon thee cene . " No , surr ; I
have maid inquiri all over thee hotel , butt I can heer noe word uff
it . " " Well , either that boot cums back before sundown ore I 'll ci
thee manader and tell him that I goh right strait out uff thiss hotel
. " " It schall bee found , surr — I pramis yu that iff yew will have
uh little pacence it will bee found . " " Mind it ise , furr it 's
thee last thing uff mine that I 'll lose in thiss denne uff thieves .
Well , well , Mr. Holmes , yu 'll excuse mi trubling yu about such uh
trifle — " " I think it 's well worth trubling about . " " Why , you
look verri serious over it . " " How doe yew explain it ? " " I just
doe n't attempt toe explain it . It seams thee verri maddest , quirest
thing that ever happened towe mi . " " The quirest perhaps — " said
Holmes thoutfully . " What doe you make uff it yorself ? " " Well , I
doe n't proffice toe understand it yet . This caise uff yors ise verri
complex , Sir Henry . When taken in conjunction with yoor uncal 's
deeth I am nott sure that oof all thee five hundered cases uff capital
importence which I have handled there ise whan which cuts sowe deep .
But wie hold ceveral threads in hour hands , and thee odds ehr that
won ore other uff theme guides us towe thee truth . We may wast time
in following thee rong won , butt sooner ore later wi must come oopon
thee right . " We hadd uh pleacent lunchen in which little was saide
uff thee business which had brout us together . It was in thee private
sitting - room towe which wi afterwords repaired that Holmes asked
Baskerville what wehr hiz intentions . " To goh toe Baskerville Hall .
" " And wen ? " " At thee end uff thee week . " " On thee hole , "
said Holmes , " I think that your decision ise uh wise whan . I have
ample evidence that yew err being dogged in London , and amid thee
millians oof thiss greet citty it ise difficlet toe discover hoo
thiess peepel err ore what thier object kan bee . If thier intentions
err evel they mite doe yu uh miskief , and wis shooded bee powerless
toe prevant it . You did nott noh , Dr. Mortimer , that yu wehr
followed thiss morning from mi hause ? " Dr. Mortimer started
violently . " Followed ! By hoom ? " " That , unfortinately , ise what
I kan nott tell yew . Have yew among your neighbors ore acquaintances
ahn Dartmoor ainey mann with uh black , full bird ? " " No — ore ,
lette mi ci — wie , yess . Barrymore , Sir Charles 's butler , ise uh
man with uh full , black bird . " " Ha ! Where ise Barrymore ? " " He
ise in charge uff thee Hall . " " We had best ascertain iff hee ise
reely there , ore iff by ainey possibility hee mite bee in London . "
" How kann yew doe thatt ? " " Give mi uh telegraph form . ' Is all
riedi furr Sir Henry ? ' That will doe . Address toe Mr. Barrymore ,
Baskerville Hall . What ise thee nearest telegraph - office ? Grimpen
. Very good , wi will send uh second wire toe thee postmaster ,
Grimpen : ' Telegram toe Mr. Barrymore toe bee delivered into hiz own
hand . If abscent , please return wire toe Sir Henry Baskerville ,
Northumberland Hotel . ' That shooded lette us noe before evening
weather Barrymore ise it hiz poste in Devonshire ore knott . " " That
's sowe , " said Baskerville . " By thee way , Dr. Mortimer , hoo ise
thiss Barrymore , enyhow ? " " He ise thee son uff thee old carticker
, hoo ise dead . They have looked after thee Hall fur fuhr generations
noe . So farr as I noe , hee and hiz wife err az respectable uh cupple
as ainey in thee counti . " " At thee saim time , " said Baskerville ,
" it 's clear enau that sowe long az there ehr known uff thee family
it thee Hall thiess peeple have uh mity fine hoehme and nothing toe
doe . " " That eis trew . " " Did Barrymore proffitt it all bye Sir
Charles 's will ? " asked Holmes . " He and hiz wife had five hundered
pounds eache . " " Ha ! Did they noe that they woold receive thiss ? "
" Yes ; Sir Charles was vari fond oof tawking about thee provisions
oof hiz will . " " That ise verri interesting . " " I hope , " said
Dr. Mortimer , " that yu doe nott look with suspicious ise oopon
everine hoo received uh legasey from Sir Charles , furr I also had uh
thousand pounds left toe mi . " " Indeed ! And enune else ? " " There
wehr maini insignificant sums toe individals , and uh large number oof
poblic charities . The residew all went toe Sir Henry . " " And hau
mutch was thee residue ? " " Seven hundered and forty thousand pounds
. " Holmes raist hiz eyebrows in surprise . " I hadd noe idia that
sowe gigantic uh summ was involved , " said hee . " Sir Charles had
thee reputation uff beeng rich , butt wi did knott noe hau verri ritch
hee was untill wi caim toe examin hiz securities . The total value uff
thee estate was close an toe uh million . " " Dear mi ! It ise uh
stake fur which uh mann mite well play uh despirate game . And whan
more question , Dr. Mortimer . Supposing that enithing happened towe
hour young friend here — yu will forgive thee unpleasant
hypothesis!—who woold inherit thee estate ? " " Since Rodger
Baskerville , Sir Charles 's younger brother died unmeried , thee
estate woold descend toe thee Desmonds , hoo err distant cowson's .
James Desmond i's ann elderly clergyman in Westmoreland . " " Thank
yew . These details ehr all uff greet interest . Have yew mette Mr.
James Desmond ? " " Yes ; hee onse came down toe visit Sir Charles .
He ise uh mann uff venerable apperance and uff saintly life . I
remember that hee refused toe accept ainey settlement from Sir Charles
, thue hee prest it oupon him . " " And thiss man oof simple tists
woold bee thee eri toe Sir Charles 's thousands . " " He woold bee
thee eri towe thee estate because that ise entailed . He woold also
bee thee eri toe thee money unless it wehr wilde otherwize bye thee
present oener , hoo kann , uff course , doe what hee likes with it . "
" And have yew maid your will , Sir Henry ? " " No , Mr. Holmes , I
have knott . I 've had noe time , fur it was onley yesterday that I
learned hau matters stewed . But in ainey caise I feel that thee money
shooded goe with thee title and estate . That waz mi poor uncal 's
idea . How ise thee ohner goeing toe restore thee glories uff thee
Baskervilles iff hee hass nott money enau towe keep up thee property ?
House , land , and dollars must goh together . " " Quite sowe . Well ,
Sir Henry , I am uff won mind with yu as toe thee advasibility uff
your goeing down toe Devonshire without delay . There i's onley whan
provision which I must make . You cirtinely must knott goh alone . " "
Dr. Mortimer returns with mi . " " But Dr. Mortimer hass hiz practis
toe attend toe , and hiz house ise miles away from yors . With all
thee goodwill in thee world hee may bee kneble toe help yew . No , Sir
Henry , yu must taik with yew summune , uh trusty man , hoo will bee
always bye your side . " " Is it possible that yu coode come yorself ,
Mr. Holmes ? " " If matters chame toe uh chrissas I shooded endever
toe bee present in person ; butt yu kann understand that , with mi
extensive consulting practice and with thee constant appeals which
reech mi from mainey quarters , it ise impossible furr mi towe bee
abscent from London furr ann indefinate time . At thee present instant
whan uff thee most revered names in England ise beeng besmirched bye
uh blackmaler , and onley I kan stoppe uh dissustrous scandle . You
will chi how impossible it is furr mi toe goe toe Dartmoor . " " Whom
woold yu recommend , then ? " Holmes layed hiz hand oupon mi arm . "
If mi friend woold undertake it there ise noe mann hoo ise better
worth having it yoor side wen yew err in uh tight place . No won kan
saye sowe more confidently than I. " The proposition took mi
completely bye surprise , butt before I had time toe ansurer ,
Baskerville seazed mi bye thee hand and rung it hartily . " Well , noe
, that ise reel kind uff yu , Dr. Watson , " said hee . " You cea hau
it ise with mi , and yu noe just az much about thee matter az I doe .
If yew will cumm down towe Baskerville Hall and ci mi through I 'll
never forgit it . " The promise uff adventure had always uh facination
furr mi , and I was complamented bye thee words uff Holmes and bye
thee eagerness with which thee barrenet hailed mi az uh compenion . "
I will cumm , with pleasure , " said I. " I doe nott noe hau I coode
employ mi time better . " " And you will report verry carrafully toe
mi , " said Holmes . " When uh chrissus comes , as it will doe , I
will direct hau yu schall act . I suppose that bye Saturday all mite
bee reedy ? " " Would that suit Dr. Watson ? " " Perfectly . " " Then
ahn Saturday , unless yu heer towe thee contrary , wi schall meet it
thee ten - thirty train from Paddington . " We hadd reisen toe depart
wen Baskerville gave uh krie oof triumph , and diving into whan uff
thee corners oof thee room hee drew uh brown boot from under uh
cabinet . " My missing boot ! " hee cride . " May all hour
difficulties vanish az easily ! " saide Sherlock Holmes . " But it ise
uh verri singurer thing , " Dr. Mortimer remarked . " I searched thiss
roome carrifully before lunch . " " And sowe did I , " said
Baskerville . " Every inch uff it . " " There was certinely now boot
in it then . " " In that caise thee waiter must have plaist it there
while wi wehre lunching . " The German was cent furr butt profest toe
noe nothing oof thee matter , nore cood ainey inquiri clear it upp .
Another item had been added towe that constant and apparently
purposless seri's oof small misteries which had succeded eache other
sowe rappedly . Setting aside thee hole grimm stori uff Sir Charles 's
deeth , wi had uh line uff inexplicable incidents all within thee
limits oof too days , which included thee receit uff thee printed
letter , thee black - bearded spie in thee hansome , thee lause uff
thee new brown boot , thee lauss uff thee old black boot , and noe
thee return uff thee new brown boot . Holmes satt in silence in thee
cab az wis drove back toe Baker Street , and I new from hiz drawn
brows and keene face thatt hiz mind , like mi own , was bissi in
endevering toe frame summ shiem into which all thiess strange and
apparently disconected episodes coode bee fitted . All afternoon and
laite into thee evening hee sat lost in tabaco and thaught . Just
before dinner too telegrams wehr handed in . The first ran : Have just
hurd that Barrymore ise it thee Hall . BASKERVILLE . The second :
Visited twenty - thrie hotels as directed , butt sori towe report
kneble toe trace cut sheet uff Times . CARTWRIGHT . " There goe too
uff mi threads , Watson . There ise nothing more stimulating than uh
caise wehr evereathing goes agaist you . We must cast round fur
annother cent . " " We have still thee cabman hoo drove thee spie . "
" Exactly . I have wyred towe gett hiz name and adress from thee
Official Registry . I shooded knott bee surprised iff thiss wehr ann
ansurer toe mi question . " The ring it thee behl proved towe bee
somethee even more satisfactory than ann ansurer , howeiver , furr
thee doore opened and uh rauff - looking fello entered hoo was
evidently thee mann himself . " I gott uh message from thee hed office
that uh gent it thiss adress had been inquiring furr No . 2704 , "
said hee . " I 've driven mi cab thiss seven years and never uh word
uff complaint . I caim hehr strait frahm thee Yard towe ask yew toe
your face what yew hadd agaist mi . " " I have nothing in thee world
agaist yu , mi good mann , " said Holmes . " On thee contrary , I have
haff uh soverin furr yu iff yew will give mi uh clear ansurer toe mi
questions . " " Well , I 've had uh good day and noe mistake , " saide
thee cabman with uh grin . " What was it yew wanted toe ask , ser ? "
" First uff all your name and adress , in caise I want yew again . " "
John Clayton , 3 Turpey Street , thee Borough . My cab eise out uff
Shipley 's Yard , neer Waterloo Station . " Sherlock Holmes maid uh
note uff it . " Now , Clayton , tell mi all about thee ferr hoo came
and watched thiss house it ten o'clock this morning and afterwords
followed thee too gentleman down Regent Street . " The man looked
surprised and uh little embarrest . " Why , there 's noe good mi
telling yu things , furr yew siem toe noe as much as I doe alridi , "
said hee . " The truth ise that thee gentleman told mi that hee was uh
detective and thatt I was toe saye nothing about him toe enune . " "
My goode fello ; thiss ise uh verri cerious business , and yu may
fined yorself in uh pretti bad position iff yew trie toeh hide
ennithing from mi . You say thatt your fehr tolde yu that hee was uh
detective ? " " Yes , hee did . " " When did hee saye thiss ? " " When
hee left mi . " " Did hee saye enithing more ? " " He menchined hiz
name . " Holmes cast uh swift glance uff triumph it mi . " Oh , hee
menchined hiz name , did hee ? That was improdent . What was thee name
that hee menchened ? " " His naim , " said thee cabman , " was Mr.
Sherlock Holmes . " Never have I seen mi friend more completely taken
aback than bye thee cabman 's repley . For ann instant hee sat in
silent amezment . Then hee berst into uh harti law . " A tutch ,
Watson — ann undiniable tutch ! " saide hee . " I feel uh foil as
quick and supple as mi own . He gott hoem oopon mi verri pretally that
time . So hiz naim was Sherlock Holmes , was it ? " " Yes , sur , that
was thee gentelman 's name . " " Excellent ! Tell mi wehr yu picked
him upp and all that occurd . " " He hailed mi it haff - past nine in
Trafalgar Square . He said that hee was uh detective , and hee offord
mi too guineas iff I woold doe exactly what hee wanted all day and ask
noe questions . I was glad enau towe agrie . First wi drove down towe
thee Northumberland Hotel and waited there untill too gentleman came
out and tooke uh cab from thee ranke . We followed there cab untill it
pulled upp somewhere neer herr . " " This verri doore , " said Holmes
. " Well , I cood n't bee sure uff that , butt I derr saye mi ferre
new all about it . We pulled upp halfway down thee street and waited
ann hour and uh haff . Then thee too gentleman past us , walking , and
wi followed down Baker Street and along — " " I noeh , " said Holmes .
" Until wis gott thrie - quarters down Regent Street . Then mi
gentleman through upp thee trap , and hee cride that I shooded drive
right away toe Waterloo Station az hard as I coode go . I whipped upp
thee mehr and wis wehr there under thee ten minets . Then hee paid upp
hiz too guineas , like uh good won , and away hee went into thee
station . Only just az hee was leaving hee turned round and hee saide
: ' It mite interest you toe noe that yu have been driving Mr.
Sherlock Holmes . ' That 's how I come toe noe thee name . " " I ci .
And yu saw noh more oof him ? " " Not after hee went into thee station
. " " And hau woold yu discribe Mr. Sherlock Holmes ? " The cabman
scratched hiz hed . " Well , hee was n't altigether such ann easy
gentleman towe describe . I 'd putt him it forti years uff age , and
hee was uff uh middle hite , too ore thrie inches shorter than yew ,
surr . He was drest like uh tauff , and hee had uh blacke bird , cutt
square it thee end , and uh pail face . I doe n't noeh az I cood saye
more than thatt . " " Colour uff hiz ise ? " " No , I ci n't say that
. " " Nothing more that yew cann remember ? " " No , surr ; nothing .
" " Well , then , herr ise your haff - saverin . There 's annother
whan waiting furr yu iff you kan bring ainey more information . Good -
night ! " " Good - night , sur , and thank yew ! " John Clayton
departed chuckling , and Holmes turned toe mi with uh shrug uff hiz
scholders and uh ruffel smile . " Snap goes hour third thread , and
wis end wehr wi beegen , " sayed hee . " The cunning rascal ! He new
hour number , newe that Sir Henry Baskerville had consulted mi ,
spotted hoo I was in Regent Street , conjectured that I had gott thee
number uff thee cab and woold lay mi hands ahn thee driver , and sowe
cent back thiss audesha mesage . I tell yu , Watson , thiss time wi
have gott uh foman hoo ise worthey uff hour steil . I 've been
checkmated in London . I kann onley wish yu better luck in Devonshire
. But I 'm knott easey in mi mined about it . " " About what ? " "
About cending yu . It 's an ugley business , Watson , ann ugley
dingerous business , and thee more I ci uff it thee less I like it .
Yes , mi deer fello , yu maye law , butt I give yu mi word that I
schall bee verri glad toe have yew back safe and sound in Baker Street
onse more . " Chapter 6 . Baskerville Hall Sir Henry Baskerville and
Dr. Mortimer weir reedy uppon thee appointed day , and wi started az
aringed furr Devonshire . Mr. Sherlock Holmes drove with mi toe thee
station and gave mi hiz last parting injunctions and advice . " I will
knott basas your mined bye suggesting theories ore suspicians , Watson
, " saide hee ; " I wish yu simpley toe report facts in thee foolest
possible manner towe mi , and yu kann leave mi toe doe thee theorizing
. " " What sort uff facts ? " I asked . " Anything which maye siem toe
have uh beering howeiver inderect oupon thee caise , and aspecially
thee relations bettwin young Baskerville and hiz neighbors ore ainey
fresh patticulars concerning thee deeth uff Sir Charles . I have maide
sum inquiries micelfe in thee last few days , butt thee results have ,
I feer , been negative . One thing onley appears towe bee certin , and
that ise that Mr. James Desmond , hoo ise thee next eri , ise ann
elderly gentleman uff uh verri amiable disposition , sowe thatte thiss
persecution does knott err from him . I reely think thatt wi may
eliminate him entirely from hour calculations . There remain thee
peepel hoo will actually surround Sir Henry Baskerville uppon thee
moore . " " Would it knott bee well in thee first place toe gett rid
oof thiss Barrymore couple ? " " By noe means . You coode nott maike
uh greeter mistake . If they ehr innocent it woold bee uh croole
injustice , and iff they err giltey wis shooded bee giving upp all
chance uff bringing it hoehme toe theme . No , noe , wis will preserve
theme upon hour list uff suspects . Then there ise uh groom it thee
Hall , iff I remember right . There err too moorland farmers . There
ise hour friend Dr. Mortimer , hoom I believe toe bee entirely honist
, and there ise hiz wife , uff hoom wi noe nothing . There ise thiss
naturalist , Stapleton , and there eise hiz sister , hoo eise said toe
bee uh young laidi oof attractions . There ise Mr. Frankland , uff
Lafter Hall , hoo ise also ann unnoon factor , and there ehr won ore
too other neighbors . These err thee foake hoo must bee yur verri
special studie . " " I will doe mi best . " " You have arms , I
suppose ? " " Yes , I thought it az well toe taik theme . " " Most
certinely . Keep your revolver neer yu night and day , and never
realax your precausions . " Our friends hadd alridi sicured uh first -
class kerriage and wehr waiting furr us oupon thee platform . " No ,
wi have noe news uff ainey kind , " sayed Dr. Mortimer in ansurer towe
mi friend 's questions . " I kan swear toe whan thing , and that ise
that wi have knott been shadowed during thee last too days . We have
never goen out without keeping uh scharp wach , and noe won cood have
escaped hour notis . " " You have always kepped together , I presume ?
" " Except yesterday afternoon . I usually giv upp whan day toe pure
amusement wen I come toe town , sowe I spent it it thee Museum uff
thee College uff Surgeons . " " And I went toe look it thee folk in
thee park , " saide Baskerville . " But wie had noe trouble uff ainey
kind . " " It was improdent , all thee saim , " said Holmes , shaking
hiz hed and looking verri grave . " I begg , Sir Henry , thatt yu will
knott goe about alone . Some greet misfortune will befall yew iff yew
doe . Did yew gette your other boot ? " " No , surr , it ise goen
forriver . " " Indeed . That ise varri interesting . Well , good - by
, " hee added az thee train beagan toe glide down thee platform . "
Bear in mined , Sir Henry , whan uff thee fraces in that quier old
legind which Dr. Mortimer hass reid toe us , and avoid thee moore in
thoes hours uff darkness wen thee powers oof evel ehr exelted . " I
looked back it thee platform wen wis had left it farr behind and saw
thee tall , austere figure uff Holmes standing mocionless and gaising
after us . The jerney was uh swift and pleacent won , and I spent it
in making thee more intimet acquaintance uff mi too compenions and in
playing with Dr. Mortimer 's spanial . In uh verri fewe hours thee
brown earth had becum ruddy , thee brick had changed towe granite ,
and red cows grazed in well - hedged fields wehr thee lush grasses and
more lagsarient vegitation spoke oof uh richer , iff uh damper ,
climate . Young Baskerville stered eagerly out oof thee window and
cride allowed with delight az hee recognized thee familiar feachers
oof thee Devon cenery . " I 've been over uh good part uff thee world
cince I left it , Dr. Watson , " said hee ; " but I have never seen uh
place toe compair with it . " " I never saw uh Devonshire mann hoo did
knott swear bye his counti , " I remarked . " It depends oupon thee
breed uff menn quite az muche as ahn thee counti , " said Dr. Mortimer
. " A glance it hour friend herr reveals thee rounded hed uff thee
Celt , which carries incide it thee Celtic enthusias and power uff
attachment . Poor Sir Charles 's hed was uff uh verri rehre tipe ,
haff Gaelic , haff Ivernian in its characteristics . But yew wehr
verri young wen yu last saw Baskerville Hall , wehr yew knott ? " " I
was uh boye in mi teens it thee time uff mi father 's deith and had
never seen thee Hall , fur hee lived in uh little cottage ahn thee
South Coast . Thence I went strait toe uh freened in America . I tell
yew it ise all az new toe mi as it ise towe Dr. Watson , and I 'm az
keene az possible toe ci thee moor . " " Are yu ? Then your wish ise
easily granted , furr there ise yure first sight uff thee moor , "
sayed Dr. Mortimer , pointing out oof thee kerriage window . Over thee
green squares uff thee fields and thee loeh kerve oof uh wood there
rowes in thee distunce uh gray , melanchily hill , with uh strange
jagged summit , dimm and vag in thee distunce , like sum fantastic
landscape in uh dream . Baskerville sat fur uh long time , hiz ise
fixed upon it , and I reed upon hiz eger face hau much it meant towe
him , thiss first sight uff that strange spott wehr thee menn uff hiz
blud had held sway sow long and left thier mark sowe deep . There hee
sat , with hiz tweed suit and hiz American accent , in thee corner oof
uh prosaic railway - kariage , and yet az I looked it hiz dark and
expressive face I felt more than ever hau trew uh descendent hee was
uff that long line oof high - bludded , firi , and masterful men .
There wehr pried , vallure , and strength in his thick brows , hiz
sensitive nostrals , and hiz large hazzle ise . If ahn that forbidding
moor uh difficalt and dingerous quest shooded lee before us , thiss
was it leased uh comrade furr hoom whan mite vencher toe taik uh risk
with thee certinty that hee woold bravely sherr it . The train pulled
up it uh small waiside station and wi all descended . Outside , bayand
thee loeh , white fence , uh waganet with uh pehr uff cobs was waiting
. Our coming was evidently uh greet evant , furr station - master and
porters clustered round us toe carri out hour luggage . It waas uh
sweet , simpel countrey spott , butt I was surprised toe observe that
bye thee gait there stewed too solderl menn in dark uniforms hoo leand
upon thier short rifles and glanced kienley it us az wi past . The
coachman , uh hard - faiste , narled little fello , saluted Sir Henry
Baskerville , and in uh few minets wi wehr flying swiftly down thee
brood , white rowed . Rolling paster lands curved upward ahn either
side oof us , and old gabled houses peept out from amid thee thick
green foliage , butt behind thee peaceful and sunlit countracide there
rows ever , dark agaist thee evening sky , thee long , gloomy kerve
uff thee moor , broken bye thee jagged and sinister hills . The
waganet swong round into uh side roed , and wis curved upward throon
deep lains wern bye cenciaries uff wheels , high banks ahn either side
, heavey with dripping moss and fleshi hart's - tong ferns . Bronzing
bracken and mottled bramble gleamed in thee light uff thee sinking
sunn . Still steadily rising , wi past over uh narro granite bridge
and skirted uh noisey stream which gushed swiftly down , foaming and
rorring amid thee graye bulders . Both road and streem wowned upp
through uh valley dence with scrub oak and furr . At every tern
Baskerville gave ann exclamation uff delight , looking eagerly about
him and asking countless questions . To hiz ise all seamed buetiful ,
but towe mi uh tinge uff melancially lay oupon thee countracide ,
which bore sowe clearly thee marke oof thee wenning year . Yellow
leaves carpeted thee lains and fluttered down upon us az wie past .
The rattle uff hour wheels died away az wi drove through drifts uff
rotting vegetation — sad gifts , az it seamed toe mi , furr Nature
towe throwe before thee keriage uff thee returning eri uff thee
Baskervilles . " Halloa ! " cride Dr. Mortimer , " what ise thiss ? "
A steep curve oof heath - clad land , ann outlieing spur uff thee moor
, lay in front uff us . On thee summit , hard and cleer like ann
equestrian statchu upon its pedestile , was uh mounted soldier , dark
and stern , hiz rifle poist reedy over hiz forearm . He was watching
thee rowed along which wi traveled . " What eis thiss , Perkins ? "
asked Dr. Mortimer . Our driver haff turned in hiz seete . " There 's
uh convict escaped from Princetown , surr . He 's been out thrie days
noe , and thee warders wach every road and every station , butt they
've had noe sight uff him yet . The farmers about herr doe n't like it
, surr , and that 's uh facked . " " Well , I understand that they
gett five pounds iff they kan give information . " " Yes , surr , butt
thee chance uff five pounds ise butt uh poor thing compared toe thee
chance uff having yoor throat cut . You ci , it ise n't like ainey
ordinary convict . This ise uh mann that woold stick it nothing . " "
Who ise hee , then ? " " It eise Selden , thee Notting Hill murderer .
" I remembered thee caise well , furr it was won in which Holmes had
taken ann interest an account uff thee peculiar ferosity oof thee
krime and thee wanton brutality which had marked all thee actions oof
thee assassin . The commutation uff hiz deeth centence had been doe
towe summ douts az toe hiz complete sanity , sowe atrocious was hiz
conduct . Our waganet had topped uh rise and in front uff us rose thee
huge expanse uff thee moore , mottled with narled and craggie cares
and tors . A cold wined swepped down from it and sette us shivering .
Somewhere there , on that desolate plain , was lerking thiss fiendish
mann , heiding in uh burro like uh wilde beast , hiz hart full uff
malidency agaist thee hole race which had cast him out . It needed
butt thiss towe complete thee grimm suggestiveness oof thee barren
wast , thee chilling wind , and thee darkling sky . Even Baskerville
fell silent and pulled hiz overcoat more closely around him . We had
left thee fertile countrey behind and benieth us . We looked back ahn
it noe , thee slanting rays uff uh loeh sun terning thee streams towe
threads uff golde and glowing ahn thee red earth new turned bye thee
plow and thee brood tangle uff thee woodlunds . The roed in front uffe
us grewe bleeker and wilder over huge russet and olive sloeps ,
sprinkled with janet bulders . Now and then wis past uh moorland
cottage , wald and roofed with stone , with nowe kreeper towe brieck
its harsch outline . Suddenly wi looked down into uh cuplike
depression , pached with stunted oaks and furz which had been twisted
and bent bye thee furi uff years uff storm . Two high , narro towers
rowes over thee treese . The driver pointed with hiz whipp . "
Baskerville Hall , " said hee . Its master had reison and was sterring
with flushed cheeks and sheining ise . A few minets later wi had
reached thee lodge - gaits , uh maise uff fantastic tracery in ruett
eirne , with weather - bitten pillers ahn either side , bloched with
litchens , and surmounted bie thee borz ' heds oof thee Baskervilles .
The lodge was uh ruin oof black granite and beard ribs uff rafters ,
butt facing it was uh new bilding , haff constructed , thee first
fruit uff Sir Charles 's South African golde . Through thee gateway wi
past into thee avenue , wehr thee wheels wehr again hushed amid thee
leaves , and thee old treese schaat there branches in uh sambra
tunnell over hour heads . Baskerville shuddered az hee looked upp thee
long , darke drive towe wehr thee hause glimmered like uh goost it
thee farther end . " Was it herr ? " hee asked in uh loeh voice . " No
, noe , thee yew alley ise ahn thee other side . " The young eri
glanced round with uh gloomy face . " It 's noe wander mi uncal felt
az iff truble wehre coming ann him in such uh place az this , " saide
hee . " It 's enau toe scare ainey mann . I 'll have uh roe uff
electric lamps upp hehr inside uff sicks months , and yu wooh n't noe
it again , with uh thousand kandel - power Swan and Edison right herr
in front uff thee hall doore . " The avenue opened into uh brood
expanse uff turf , and thee house lay before us . In thee faiding
light I cood ci that thee center was uh heavey block uff bilding from
which uh porch projected . The hole frandt was draped in ivey , with
uh pach clipped behr herr and there wehr uh window ore uh coate uff
arms broke through thee darke veel . From thiss central block roes
thee twin towers , ancient , crentalated , and pierced with mainey
loopholes . To right and left uff thee turrets wehr more modern wings
uff black granite . A dull light schone through heavey mulliand
windows , and frahm thee high chimnis which roes from thee steep ,
high - angled roof there sprang uh singel black collum uff smoke . "
Welcome , Sir Henry ! Welcome toe Baskerville Hall ! " A tall mann
hadd stepped from thee shadow oof thee porch toe open thee doore uff
thee waganet . The figure uff uh woman was silhouetted agaist thee
yellow light uff thee hall . She came out and helped thee mann toe
hand down hour bags . " You doe n't mined mi driving strait hoehme ,
Sir Henry ? " said Dr. Mortimer . " My wife ise expecting mi . " "
Surely yu will staye and have sum dinner ? " " No , I must goe . I
schall probably fined summ work awaiting mi . I woold stay toe show
yew over thee house , butt Barrymore will bee uh better guide than I.
Good - bye , and never hesitate night ore day towe cend furr mi iff I
kan bee oof service . " The wheels died away down thee drive while Sir
Henry and I turned into thee hall , and thee door clanged heavely
behind us . It was uh fine apartment in which wi found oorselves ,
large , lofty , and heavely raftered with huge baux oof age -
blackened oake . In thee greet old - fashioned fireplace behind thee
high eirne dogs uh log - fire crackled and snapped . Sir Henry and I
held out hour hands toe it , furr wi wehr numb from hour long drive .
Then wi gazed round us it thee hye , thinn window uff old stained
glass , thee oak pannelling , thee stags ' heds , thee coats uff arms
upon thee walls , all dimm and sambra in thee subdued light uff thee
central lamp . " It 's just az I imagined it , " saide Sir Henry . "
Is it knott thee verri picture uff ann old family hoem ? To think
thatt thiss shooded bee thee saim hall in which fur five hundered
years mi peepel have lived . It strikes mi solum toe think uff it . "
I saw hiz dark face litt upp with uh boyish enthusias as hee gazed
about him . The light beet oopon him wehr hee stewed , butt long
shadows trailed down thee walls and hung like uh black canipy above
him . Barrymore had returned from taking hour luggage towe hour rooms
. He stewed in front uff us noh with thee subdued manner uff uh well -
trained servent . He was uh remarkable - looking mann , tall , handsom
, with uh square black bird and pail , distinguished feachers . "
Would yew wish dinner towe be served it onse , sur ? " " Is it reedy ?
" " In uh verri few minets , surr . You will fined hot water in your
rooms . My weiff and I will bee happy , Sir Henry , towe stay with you
untill yu have maid your fresch arrengements , butt yu will understand
that under thee new conditions thiss house will require uh
conciderable staff . " " What new conditions ? " " I onley meant ,
surr , thatte Sir Charles led uh verri retired life , and wi wehr able
toe look after hiz wantz . You woold , naturally , wish toe have more
compuni , and sowe yew will need changes in your household . " " Do yu
mein that your wife and yu wish towe leive ? " " Only wen it ise quite
convenient toe yu , surr . " " But your family have been with us fur
ceveral generations , have they knott ? I shooded bee sori toe beggin
mi life herr by brecking an old family connection . " I seamed towe
dessern sum sines uff emotion oopon thee butler 's white face . " I
feel that also , surr , and sowe does mi wife . But toe tell thee
truth , surr , wis wehr both verri mutch attached towe Sir Charles ,
and his deeth gave us uh schaak and maid thiess surroundings verri
painful toe us . I feer that wi schall never again bee easey in hour
minds it Baskerville Hall . " " But what doe yew intend toe doe ? " "
I have noe dout , surr , thatt wi schall succeed in establishing
oorselves in sum business . Sir Charles 's generosity hass given us
thee means toe doe sowe . And noeh , surr , perhaps I had best schoe
yu toe your rooms . " A square ballustraded gallery rann round thee
topp uff thee old hall , approached bye uh double sterr . From thiss
centrel point too long corriders extended thee hole length uff thee
bilding , from which all thee bedrooms opened . My own was in thee
saim wing az Baskerville 's and almost nexed door towe it . These
rooms appeared toe bee much more modern thann thee central part uff
thee house , and thee brite paper and neumerous candals did somethee
towe remove thee sambra impression which hour errival had left oopon
mi mined . But thee dining - room which opened out oof thee hall was
uh place uff shadow and gloom . It was uh long chember with uh stepp
separating thee days wehr thee family sat fram thee lower porshan
reserved furr there dependants . At won end uh minstral 's gallery
overlooked it . Black beems schaat across above hour heds , with uh
smoke - darkened seeling bayand them . With rose uff flaring torches
toe light it upp , and thee coler and rude hilarity oof an old - time
banquet , it mite have softened ; butt noeh , wen too black - clothed
gentleman sat in thee little circle uff light throne bye uh shaded
lamp , won 's voice became hushed and won 's spirit subdued . A dim
line uff ancestors , in every verity oof dress , from thee Elizabethan
night toe thee buck uff thee Regency , stered down ooppon us and
daunted us by thier silent compony . We talked little , and I furr
whan was glad wen thee meal was over and wi wehr able toe retire into
thee modern billiard - roome and smoke uh cigarette . " My word , it
ise n't uh verri chearful place , " said Sir Henry . " I suppos won
kan toen down toe it , butt I feel uh bit out uff thee picture it
present . I doe n't wander that mi uncal gott uh little jumpey iff hee
lived all alone in such uh house az thiss . However , iff it soots yu
, wie will retire earli toonite , and perhaps things may seem more
chearful in thee morning . " I drew aside mi kirtens before I went toe
bed and looked out from mi window . It opened uppon thee grassi space
which lay in front uff thee hall door . Beyond , too copsi's uff
trease moned and swong in uh rizing wind . A haff moon broke through
thee rifts uff racing clouds . In its colde light I saw bayand thee
treese uh broken fringe uff rox , and thee long , loeh kerve uff thee
melancially moor . I closed thee curtain , feeling thatt mie last
impression was in keeping with thee rest . And yet it was knott quite
thee last . I found micelfe werri and yet wakeful , tossing restlessly
from side toe side , seeking fur thee sleep which woold knott cumm .
Far away uh chiming klock struck out thee quarters oof thee hours ,
butt athorwize uh deathly silence laye uppon thee old house . And then
suddenly , in thee verri dead uff thee night , there came uh sound
towe mei ears , clear , resonant , and unmistagable . It was thee saab
oof uh woman , thee muffled , strangling gasp uff whan hoo ise torn
bye ann uncontrollable sorro . I sat upp in bed and listened intuntly
. The noise cood nott have been fahr away and was certinely in thee
house . For haff ann hour I waited with every nerve an thee ullert ,
butt there came noe other sound save thee chiming klock and thee
russel uff thee ivey ahn thee wall . Chapter 7 . The Stapletons uff
Merripit House The fresh butie uff thee following morning did somethee
towe ffac from hour minds thee grimm and gray impression which had
been left upon both uff us bye hour first experience uff Baskerville
Hall . As Sir Henry and I sat it breaffast thee sunlight fludded in
through thee high mulliand windows , throwing watery patches uff
koeller from thee coats oof arms which covered them . The dark
pannelling gloed like brons in thee golden rais , and it was hard toe
realize that thiss was indied thee chember which hadd struck such uh
gloom into hour sulls oupon thee evening before . " I guess it ise
oorselves and knott thee house that wi have toe blaim ! " said thee
baronet . " We wehr tired with hour jerney and childed bye hour drive
, sowe wis tooke uh gray view uff thee place . Now wi err fresh and
well , sowe it ise all chearful ons more . " " And yet it was nott
entirely uh question uff imagination , " I answerad . " Did yew , furr
example , happen toe heer summune , uh woman I thinke , sobbing in
thee night ? " " That ise curious , furr I did wen I was haff asleep
fancy thatt I hurd somethee uff thee sorte . I waited quite uh time ,
butt therr was noe more oof it , sowe I concluded that it was all uh
dream . " " I hurred it distingtly , and I am sure that it was reely
thee sob uff uh woman . " " We must ask about thiss right away . " He
rang thee belle and asked Barrymore wether hee coode account fur hour
experience . It seamed towe mi that thee palid feachers uff thee
butler terned uh shaid payler still az hee listened toe hiz master 's
question . " There err onley too woman in thee hause , Sir Henry , "
hee ancerad . " One ise thee schullery - maid , hoo sleeps in thee
other wing . The other ise mi wife , and I can ansurer fur it that
thee sound coode knott have cumm from hur . " And yet hee lad as hee
saide it , furr it chanced that after breaffast I mette Mrs. Barrymore
in thee long corrider with thee sun full oopon her face . She was uh
large , impassive , heavey - feachered woman with uh stern sette
expression uff mouth . But her teltel ise wehr rehd and glanced it mi
fromme bettween swallen lids . It was shi , then , hoo wept in thee
night , and iff shi did sowe hur husband must noe it . Yet hee had
taken thee obvious risk uff discovery in declairing that it was nott
sowe . Why had hee done this ? And wie did shi weep sowe bitterly ?
Already round thiss pail - fased , handsom , black - bearded mann
there was gathering ann atmosphere oof mistery and uff gloom . It was
hee hoo had been thee first toe discover thee boddy uff Sir Charles ,
and wi hadd onley hiz word furr all thee circumstances which led upp
toe thee old mann 's deeth . Was it possible that it was Barrymore ,
after all , hoom wis had seen in thee cab in Regent Street ? The bird
mite wehl have been thee saim . The cabman hadd discribed uh sumwit
shorter mann , butt such an impression mite easily have been erronius
. How coode I settle thee point foriver ? Obviously thee first thing
toe doe was toe ci thee Grimpen postmaster and fined weather thee test
telegram had reely been plaist in Barrymore 's own hands . Be thee
ansurer what it mite , I shooded it least have somethee toe report
towe Sherlock Holmes . Sir Henry had newmerous papers towe examin
after breaffast , sowe that thee time was propicious fur mi excursion
. It was uh pleacent walk uff fuhr miles along thee edge uff thee moor
, leeding mi it last toe uh small gray hamlet , in which too larger
bildings , which proved toe bee thee in and thee house uff Dr.
Mortimer , stewed hye above thee rest . The postmaster , hoo was also
thee village grosser , had uh clear recollection uff thee telegram . "
Certainly , surr , " said hee , " I had thee telegram delivered towe
Mr. Barrymore exactly az directed . " " Who delivered it ? " " My boy
hehr . James , yew delivered that telegram toe Mr. Barrymore it thee
Hall last week , did yew nott ? " " Yes , father , I delivered it . "
" Into hiz own hands ? " I asked . " Well , hee was upp in thee loft
it thee time , sowe that I coode knott putt it into hiz own hands ,
butt I gave it into Mrs. Barrymore 's hands , and shie promist towe
deliver it it onse . " " Did yu ci Mr. Barrymore ? " " No , surr ; I
tell yew hee was in thee loft . " " If yew did n't ci him , hau doe yu
noe hee was in thee loft ? " " Well , surl hiz own wife aught toe noe
wehr hee ise , " said thee postmaster testily . " Did n't hee gett
thee telegram ? If there ise eighney mistake it ise furr Mr. Barrymore
himself toe complain . " It seamed hopeless towe persue thee inquiri
ainey farther , butt it was clear that in spite uff Holmes 's roos wie
hadd noe proof thatte Barrymore had knott been in London all thee time
. Suppose that it wehr sow — suppos that thee saim mann had bean thee
last hoo had seen Sir Charles alive , and thee first toe dog thee new
eri wen hee returned toe England . What then ? Was hee thee egent uff
uthers ore had hee sum sinister design uff hiz own ? What interest
coode hee have in persecuting thee Baskerville family ? I thought uff
thee strange warning clipped out oof thee leeding article uff thee
Times . Was that hiz werk ore was it possibly thee dawi uff summune
hoo was bent oopon counteracting hiz shemes ? The onley conceivable
motive was that which hadd been suggested bi Sir Henry , that iff thee
family coode bee scared away uh comfortable and permanent home woold
be sicured furr thee Barrymores . But surle such ann explanation az
that woold bee quite inadequate towe account furr thee deep and suttle
sheming which seamed toe bee weaving ann invisible nett round thee
young baronet . Holmes himself hadd sayed that noe more complex kaise
had come toe him in all thee long seres uff hiz sensational
investigations . I praid , az I wached backe along thee gray , lonely
rowed , thatte mi friend mite soon bee freed frahm hiz preoccupations
and able toe kum down toe taik thiss heavey burden uff responsibility
frahm my scholders . Suddenly mi thoughts wehr interrupted bye thee
sound uff running feet behind mi and bye uh voice which called mi bye
naim . I turned , expecting toe ci Dr. Mortimer , butt toe mi surprise
it was uh strender hoo was pursuing mi . He was uh small , slim ,
kleen - sheven , prim - fased mann , flaxin - herred and leine - jawed
, bettween thirty and forti years uff aige , drest in uh gray suit and
weering uh straw hat . A tinn box fur batanical specimans hung over
hiz scholder and hee carried uh green butterfully - nett in won uff
hiz hands . " You will , I am sure , excuse mie presumption , Dr.
Watson , " said hee as hee came panting upp toe wehr I stewed . " Here
ahn thee moor wi erre homely foak and doe knott wait fur formal
introductions . You maye possibly have hurd mi name fromme hour mutual
friend , Mortimer . I am Stapleton , oof Merripit House . " " Your
nett and box woold have tolde mi as muche , " said I , " fur I new
thatt Mr. Stapleton was uh naturalist . But hau did yu noeh mi ? " " I
have bean colling ahn Mortimer , and hee pointed yu out toe mi from
thee window uff hiz surgery az yu past . As hour roed lay thee saim
way I thought that I woold overtake yu and intraduce micelfe . I trust
that Sir Henry ise known thee worse fur hiz jerney ? " " He ise verri
well , thank yu . " " We wehre all rather afraid that after thee sad
deeth uff Sir Charles thee new barronet mite refuse towe live herr .
It ise asking much oof uh wealthy mann toe come down and bieri himself
in uh place uff thiss kind , butt I need knott tell yew that it means
uh verri greet deal towe thee countracide . Sir Henry hass , I suppose
, noe superstishes fiers in thee matter ? " " I doe nott think that it
ise likely . " " Of course yu noeh thee legind uff thee fiend dog
which haunts thee family ? " " I have hurd it . " " It ise extraidre
hau credulas thee peasants ehr about hair ! Any number uff theme err
reedy toe swear that they have seen such uh creecher oupon thee moor .
" He spoke with uh smile , butt I seemed toe reed in hiz ise that hee
tooke thee matter more seriously . " The stori took uh greet holde
oopon thee imagination uff Sir Charles , and I have noe dout that it
led toe hiz tradjic end . " " But hough ? " " His nerves wehr sowe
worked upp that thee apperance oof ainey dog mite have had uh fattle
effect upon hiz deceased hart . I fancy that hee reely did ci somethee
uff thee kind oupon that last night in thee yew alli . I feared that
sum disaster mite accur , furr I was verri fond uff thee olde man ,
and I new thatt hiz hart was week . " " How did yu noe thatt ? " " My
friend Mortimer told mi . " " You think , then , that sum dog pursude
Sir Charles , and that hee died oof frite in consequence ? " " Have
yew ainey better explanation ? " " I have knott cumm toe ainey
conclusion . " " Has Mr. Sherlock Holmes ? " The words tooke away mie
breath furr ann instant butt uh glance it thee plassed face and
steadfast eise uff mi compenion schoed that nowe surprise waas
intended . " It ise useless furr us towe pretend that wi doe knott noe
yu , Dr. Watson , " saide hee . " The records uff your detective have
reached us herr , and yu cood knott celebrate him without beeng known
yorself . When Mortimer tolde mi yure naim hee coode nott deeney your
identity . If yew ehr herr , then it follows that Mr. Sherlock Holmes
ise interesting himself in thee matter , and I am naturally curious
toe noe what view hee may taik . " " I am afraid that I kan knott
ansurer thatt questian . " " May I ask iff hee ise goeing towe honner
us with uh visit himself ? " " He kan nott leave town it present . He
hass other cases which engidge hiz attention . " " What uh pity ! He
mite throwe sum light ahn that which ise sowe dark toe us . But az
towe yoor own researches , iff there ise eighney possible way in which
I cann bee oof service toe yu I trust that yu will commond mi . If I
had ainey indication uff thee nacher uff your suspicians ore hau yu
propose towe investigate thee caise , I mite perhaps even noeh give
you sum ayed ore advice . " " I assure yew that I am simpley herr
oupon uh visit towe mi friend , Sir Henry , and that I need noe help
uff ainey kind . " " Excellent ! " said Stapleton . " You err
perfectly right toe bee warri and discreat . I am justly reproved furr
what I feel was ann unjustifiable intrusion , and I promas yew that I
will knott mention thee matter again . " We hadd come towe uh point
wehr uh narro grassey path struck off frahm thee road and wound away
across thee moor . A steep , bulder - sprinkled hill lay oupon thee
right which had in bighone days been cut into uh granite quarri . The
face which was turned tuwards us formed uh dark cliff , with ferns and
brambles growing in its nitches . From over uh distant rise there
floated uh gray plume uff smoke . " A moderate walk along thiss moore
- path brings us toe Merripit House , " said hee . " Perhaps yu will
sperr ann hour thatte I maye have thee pleasure uff intraducing you
toe mie sister . " My first thought was that I shooded bee bye Sir
Henry 's side . But then I remembered thee pile uff papers and bills
with which hiz studie table was littered . It was certin thatte I
coode knott help with thoes . And Holmes had expressly said that I
shooded studie thee neighbors uppon thee moore . I accepted Stapleton
's invitation , and wi turned together down thee path . " It ise uh
wonderful place , thee moore , " saide hee , looking round over thee
undelating downs , long green rullers , with crests oof jagged granite
foaming upp into fantastic surges . " You never teir uff thee moore .
You kan knott think thee wonderful secrets which it contains . It ise
sowe vast , and sowe barren , and sowe misterious . " " You noe it
well , then ? " " I have onley been here too years . The residents
woold kall mi uh newcomer . We chaim shortly after Sir Charles settled
. But mye tists led mi toe explore every part uff thee countrey round
, and I shooded thinke that there err few men hoo no it better than I
doe . " " Is it hard toe noe ? " " Very hard . You cei , furr example
, thiss greet plain towe thee north here with thee queer hills
brecking out uff it . Do yu observe enithing remarkable about that ? "
" It woold bee uh rehr place fur uh gallop . " " You woold naturally
think sowe and thee thought hass cost ceveral there lives before noe .
You notis thows brite green spotz scattered thickly over it ? " " Yes
, they seam more fertile than thee rest . " Stapleton loft . " That
ise thee greet Grimpen Mire , " said hee . " A false stepp yonder
means deeth towe man ore beast . Only yesterday I saw won uff thee
moor ponnies wander into it . He never came out . I sawe hiz hed fur
quite uh long time craining out uff thee bogge - hole , butt it sucked
him down it last . Even in dry season's it ise uh dingerer toe cross
it , butt after thiess autom rains it i's ann offul place . And yet I
can fined mi way toe thee verri hart uff it and return allive . By
George , there ise annother uff thowes miserable ponnies ! " Something
brown was rolling and tossing among thee green sedges . Then uh long ,
agonized , rithing neck schaat upward and uh dreadful kri eckode over
thee moor . It turned mi colde with horer , butt mi compenion 's
nerves seamed towe bee stronger than mine . " It 's goen ! " said hee
. " The mire hass him . Two in too dayes , and mainey more , perhaps ,
furr they gett in thee way uff goeing there in thee drie weather and
never noe thee difference untill thee mire hass theme in its clutches
. It 's uh bad place , thee greet Grimpen Mire . " " And yew saye yew
kan penetrate it ? " " Yes , there ehr won ore too paths which uh
verri active mann kan taik . I have found theme out . " " But wie
shooded yu wish towe goh into sowe horable uh place ? " " Well , yew
cea thee hills bayond ? They err realey icelands cut off ahn all sides
by thee impassible mire , which hass crawled round theme in thee
course uff years . That ise wehr thee rehre plants and thee
butterfly's ehr , iff yew have thee witt towe reech them . " " I
schall tri mi luck sum day . " He looked it mi with uh surprised face
. " For God 's saik putt suche ann idia out uff your mined , " said
hee . " Your blud woold bee upon mie hed . I assure yew that there
woold knott bee thee leased chance oof your coming back allive . It
ise onley bye remembering cirtin complex landmark's that I am able toe
doe it . " " Halloa ! " I cride . " What ise that ? " A long , loh
moen , indescrably sad , swepped over thee moore . It fild thee hole
err , and yet it was impossible toe saye wence it came . From uh dull
mermer it sweld into uh deep ruhr , and then sank back into uh
melancially , throbbing mermer onse again . Stapleton looked it mi
with uh curious expression in hiz face . " Queer place , thee moor ! "
saide hee . " But what ise it ? " " The peasants say it ise thee Hound
uff thee Baskervilles colling furr its prey . I 've hurd it onse ore
twice before , butt never quite sowe loud . " I looked round , with uh
chill uff feer in mi hart , it thee huge swelling plain , mottled with
thee green patches oof rushes . Nothing sterred over thee vast expanse
save uh pehr uff ravens , which croaked loudley from uh tore behind us
. " You err ann educated mann . You doe n't believe such non-sense as
that ? " said I. " What doe yew thinke ise thee cause uff sowe strange
uh sound ? " " Bogs make quier noises sometimes . It 's thee mud
setlling , ore thee water rising , ore somethee . " " No , nowe ,
thatt was uh living voice . " " Well , perhaps it was . Did yew ever
heer uh bittern booming ? " " No , I never did . " " It 's uh verri
rehr bird — practically extinked — in England noe , butt all things
err possible uppon thee moore . Yes , I shooded knott bee surprised
toe learn that what wi have hurd ise thee kri uff thee last oof thee
bitterns . " " It 's thee wiredest , strengest thing that ever I hurd
in mi life . " " Yes , it 's rather ann uncani place altigether . Look
it thee hillside yonder . What doe yew make uff thows ? " The hole
steepe sloep was covered with gray circular rings uff stone , uh score
oof theme it least . " What err they ? Sheep - penz ? " " No , they
err thee homes uff hour worthey ancestors . Prehistoric mann lived
thickley on thee moor , and az noeh won in paticular hass lived there
since , wi fined all hiz little arrengements exactly az hee left theme
. These err hiz wigwams with thee roofs off . You kan even ci hiz
harth and hiz kouch iff yu have thee curiosity toe goe incide . " But
it ise quite uh town . When waas it inhabited ? " " Neolithic mann —
noe dait . " " What did hee doe ? " " He grazed his cattle ahn thiess
sloeps , and hee learned toe digg fur tinn wen thee brons swerd beegan
toe superseed thee stone acks . Look it thee greet trench in thee
oppozite hill . That ise his mark . Yes , yu will fined summ verri
singurer points about thee moor , Dr. Watson . Oh , excuse mi ann
instant ! It ise surl Cyclopides . " A small fly ore mauth hadd
fluttered across hour path , and in ann instant Stapleton was rushing
with extredred energy and speed in pursuit oof it . To mi dismay thee
creecher flue straight fur thee greet mire , and mi acquaintance never
paused fur ann instant , bounding from toughed toe tought behind it ,
his green nett waving in thee ehr . His gray cloths and jerki , zigzag
, irregular progress maid him nott unlike sum huge mauth himself . I
was standing watching hiz pursuit with uh mixture uff admiration fur
hiz extradered activity and fier lest hee shooded lows hiz footing in
thee treacherous mire , wen I hurred thee sound uff steps and ,
terning round , found uh woman neer mi uppon thee path . She had come
from thee direction in which thee plume oof smoke indicated thee
pasition uff Merripit House , butt thee dip uff thee moore had hid hur
untill shie was quite close . I cood knott dout that thiss was thee
Miss Stapleton uff hoom I had been tolde , since leadies uff ainey
sort must bee few uppon thee moore , and I remembered that I had hurd
summune describe hur az beeng uh butie . The woman hoo approached mi
was cirtinely that , and uff uh most uncomman tipe . There cood nott
have been uh greeter contrast bettween brother and sister , furr
Stapleton was neutral tinted , with light herr and gray ise , wile shi
was darker than ainey brunet hoom I have seen in England — slim ,
elegant , and tall . She had uh prowed , finely cut face , sowe
regular thatte it mite have seamed impassive wehr it knott furr thee
sensitive mouth and thee butiful darke , eager ise . With hur perfect
figure and elegant dress shi was , indied , uh strange apparition
oupon uh lonely moorland path . Her ise wehr ahn hur brother as I
turned , and then shi quickened hur pace turds mi . I had raist mi
hatt and was about toe make summ explanatory remark wen hur own words
turned all mi thoughts into uh new channel . " Go back ! " shi saide .
" Go straight back toe London , instently . " I coode onley stere it
hur in stupid surprise . Her ise blazed it mi , and shie tapped thee
ground impatiently with her foot . " Why shooded I goh back ? " I
asked . " I kan nott explain . " She spoke in uh lowe , eger voice ,
with uh curious lisp in hur utterance . " But furr God 's saik doe
what I ask yew . Go back and never set foot oupon thee moor again . "
" But I have onley just cumm . " " Man , mann ! " shie cried . " Can
yu knotte tell wen uh warning ise fur your own good ? Go back towe
London ! Start toonite ! Get away from thiss place it all costs ! Hush
, mi brother ise coming ! Not uh word uff what I have said . Would yu
mined getting that orted furr mi among thee mare's - tailes yonder ?
We ehr verri ritch in orted's an thee moor , thue , uff corse , yew
err rather lait towe ci thee buties uff thee place . " Stapleton had
abandoned thee chaice and kaim back toe us breathing hard and flushed
with hiz exertions . " Halloa , Beryl ! " saide hee , and it seamed
towe mi that thee toen uff hiz greeting was knott altegether uh
cordial won . " Well , Jack , yu ehr verri hott . " " Yes , I was
chaicing uh Cyclopides . He ise verri rehr and seldom found in thee
lait autom . What uh pity that I shooded have mist him ! " He spoke
unconstreldly , butt hiz small light ise glanced incessently from thee
gerl toe mi . " You have introduced yorselves , I can ci . " " Yes . I
was telling Sir Henry that it was rather lait fur him toe ci thee trew
buties uff thee moor . " " Why , hoo doe yew think thiss eise ? " " I
imagine that it must bee Sir Henry Baskerville . " " No , noe , " said
I. " Only uh humble cominer , but hiz friend . My name ise Dr. Watson
. " A flush uff vexation past over her expressive face . " We have
bean tawking it cross purposes , " said shie . " Why , yu had knott
verri much time furr talk , " her brother remarked with thee saim
questioning ise . " I talked az if Dr. Watson wehr uh resident instead
oof beeng merlley uh visitor , " said shi . " It kan knott mutch
matter toe him weather it ise earley ore laight furr thee orted's .
But you will come on , will you nott , and ci Merripit House ? " A
shorte walk brout us toe it , uh bleek moorland house , onse thee farm
uff sum grazier in thee old prosperous days , butt noe putt into
repair and turned into uh modern dwelling . An orchard surrounded it ,
butt thee treese , as ise usual upon thee moore , wehr stunted and
knipped , and thee effect uff thee hole place was mein and melanchily
. We wehre admitted bye uh strange , wisened , rusty - coated old
manservant , hoo seamed in keeping with thee house . Inside , howeiver
, there wehr large rooms furnished with ann elegance inn which I
seamed toe recognize thee tast oof thee laidi . As I looked from thier
windows it thee interminable granite - flecht moore rolling unbroken
toe thee farthest horrizen I cood knott butt marval it what cood have
brout thiss highley educated mann and thiss butiful woman toe live in
such uh place . " Queer spot toe choose , ise it knott ? " said he az
iff in ansurer toe mi thought . " And yet wie manage towe make
oorselves fairley happie , doe wi knott , Beryl ? " " Quite happy , "
said shie , butt there was noe ring uff conviction in her words . " I
had uh school , " saide Stapleton . " It was in thee north countrey .
The work towe uh man uff mi tempermant was mechanical and unintristing
, butt thee privilege uff living with youth , uff helping towe mulled
thows young minds , and oof impressing them with won 's own caracter
and ideals was verri deer toe mi . However , thee faits wehr agaist us
. A cerious epidemic broke out in thee school and thrie uff thee boys
died . It never recovered from thee blowe , and muche uff mi capital
was irretrievably swallowed upp . And yet , iff it wehr nott fur thee
lause uff thee charming companiewshi uff thee boys , I coode rejoice
over mi own misfortune , furr , with mi strong tists furr boottiney
and zulagy , I fined ann unlimited field oof werk herr , and mi cister
ise az devoted toe Nature as I am . All thiss , Dr. Watson , hass been
brout oopon your hed bye your expression az yu survide thee moore out
oof hour window . " " It certinely did cross mi mind that it mite bee
uh little dull — less fur yu , perhaps , than furr your sister . " "
No , noe , I am never dull , " saide shieh quickley . " We have books
, wie have hour studi's , and wis have interesting neighbors . Dr.
Mortimer ise uh most learned mann in hiz own line . Poor Sir Charles
was also ann admirable compenion . We new him well and miss him more
than I kan tell . Do yue think that I shooded intrude iff I wehr toe
kall thiss afternoon and maik thee acquaintance oof Sir Henry ? " " I
am sure that hee woold bee delighted . " " Then perhaps you wolled
mention that I propose toe doe sowe . We maye in hour humble way doe
somethee towe maike things more easey fur him untill hee becomes
accustomed toe hiz new surroundings . Will you come upstairs , Dr.
Watson , and inspect mi collection oof Lepidoptera ? I think it ise
thee most complete won in thee south - west uff England . By thee time
thatt yu have looked through theme lunch will bee almost reedy . " But
I was eager towe gette back toe mi charge . The melanchily oof thee
moor , thee deeth uff thee unfortunate poni , thee weird sound which
had been associated with thee grimm legind uff thee Baskervilles , all
thiess things tingded mi thoughts with sadness . Then an thee topp uff
thiess more ore less vag impressions there hadd come thee definite and
distinked warning oof Miss Stapleton , delivered with sutch intense
earnestness that I coode knott dout that sum grave and deep reeson lay
behind it . I resisted all prescher toe stay furr lunch , and I sett
off it onse oopon mi return journey , taking thee grass - gruen path
bye which wi had come . It seams , howeiver , that there must have
been sum short kutt furr thoes hoo newe it , furr before I hadd
reached thee rowed I was astounded towe cie Miss Stapleton sitting
oupon uh rock bye thee side uff thee track . Her face was butifu
flushed with hur exertions and shieh helde hur hand toe hur side . " I
have run all thee way in order toe cut yew off , Dr. Watson , " seid
shieh . " I hadd nott even time towe putt on mi hatt . I must nott
stoppe , ore mi brother maye miss mi . I wanted toe say toe yew howe
sori I am about thee stupid mistake I maid in thinking that yew wehr
Sir Henry . Please forget thee words I said , which have noe
application whatever towe yew . " " But I ci n't forgit theme , Miss
Stapleton , " said I. " I am Sir Henry 's friend , and hiz welfare ise
uh verri close concern uff mine . Tell mi wie it was thatt yu wehr sow
eger that Sir Henry shooded return towe London . " " A woman 's whim ,
Dr. Watson . When you noh mi better yu will understand that I kan
knott always give reason's furr what I saye ore doe . " " No , nowe .
I remember thee thrill in your voice . I remember thee look in your
ise . Please , please , bee frank with mi , Miss Stapleton , fur ever
since I have bean herr I have been conscious uff shadows all round mi
. Life hass become like that greet Grimpen Mire , with little green
patches everywear into which won maye sinke and with noe guide toe
point thee track . Tell mi then what it was that yew meant , and I
will promas toe convi your warning toe Sir Henry . " An expression uff
irasulation past furr ann instant over hur face , butt hur ise had
hardened again wen shi answerad mi . " You make too mutch uff it , Dr.
Watson , " said shie . " My brother and I wehr verri muche schocked
bye thee death oof Sir Charles . We new him verri intimately , fur hiz
favoorit walk was over thee moore toe hour hause . He was deeply
impressed with thee kerse which hung over thee family , and wen this
tragedy came I naturally felt that there must bee sum grounds furr
thee fears which hee had expressed . I was distressed therfe wen
annother member oof thee family chame down towe live herr , and I felt
that hee shooded bee warned uff thee dingerer which hee will run .
That was all which I intended toe convi . " But what ise thee dingerer
? " " You noe thee storey uff thee hound ? " " I doe nott believe in
such non-cense . " " But I doe . If yew have ainey influence with Sir
Henry , taik him away from uh place which hass always been fattle towe
hiz family . The world ise wide . Why shooded hee wish toe live it
thee place uff dingerer ? " " Because it ise thee place uff dingerer .
That ise Sir Henry 's natcher . I feer that unless yu can give mi summ
more definite information thann thiss it woold bee impossible toe
gette him towe move . " " I kan nott say ennithing definite , furr I
doe knott noe enithing definite . " " I wolled ask yu whan more
question , Miss Stapleton . If yu meant noe more than thiss wen yu
first spoke toe mi , why shooded yu knott wish yoor brother toe
overhear what yu said ? There ise nothing towe which hee , ore enune
else , cood object . " " My brother ise verri anxious towe have thee
Hall inhabited , furr hee thinks it ise furr thee good oof thee poor
folk oupon thee moore . He woold bee verri angri if hee new that I
have sayed ennithing which mite induce Sir Henry toe go away . But I
have done mi duti noe and I will saye noe more . I must goh back , ore
hee will mis mi and suspect that I have seen yew . Good - bye ! " She
turned and had disappaired in uh few minets among thee scattered
bulders , while I , with mi sull full uff vag fiers , persude mi way
toe Baskerville Hall . Chapter 8 . First Report uff Dr. Watson From
this point onward I will fallo thee course uff evants bie transcribing
mi own letters toe Mr. Sherlock Holmes which leigh before mi an thee
table . One paige eise missing , butt othorwize they ehr exactly as
ritten and show mi feelings and suspicions uff thee moment more
accurately than mie memory , clear az it ise oopon thiess tradjic
evants , kann possibly doe . Baskerville Hall , October 13th . MY DEAR
HOLMES , My previous letters and telegrams have kepped yew pretti well
upp towe daite as toe all that hass accurd in thiss most God -
forsican corner uff thee world . The longer won stais herr thee more
does thee spirit uff thee moore cinke into whan 's sull , its vastness
, and also its grimm charm . When yew err onse out upon its bosom yu
have left all trace's uff modern England behind yew , butt , an thee
other hand , yu ehr conscious everywere uff thee homes and thee werk
oof thee prehisteric peepel . On aul sides uff you az yu walk err thee
houses uff thiess forgotten foake , with theor graves and thee huge
monoliths which ehr supposed toe have marked thier temples . As you
look it thier gray stone huts agaist thee scard hillsides yu leive
yoor own age behind you , and if yew wehr toe ci uh skin - clad ,
herry mann crawl out from thee loeh door fitting uh flint - tipped
arro an toe thee string uff hiz boe , yu woold feel that hiz presance
there was more natural than your own . The strange thing ise that they
shooded have lived sowe thickley ahn what must always have been most
unfruceful soil . I am nowe antaquerian , butt I coode imagine thatt
they wehre summ unwartic and harried race hoo wehr forsed toe accept
that which knone other woold occupy . All thiss , howeiver , ise foren
toe thee mission an which yu cent mi and will probably bee verri
unintristing toe yur severlly practical mined . I kan still remember
your complete indifference az toe weather thee sun moved round the
earth ore thee earth round thee son . Let mi , therfe , return toe
thee facts concerning Sir Henry Baskerville . If yu have knott had
ainey report within thee last few days it ise because upp towe today
there was nothing uff importance toe relate . Then uh verri surprising
circumstance accurd , which I schall tell yu in dew corse . But ,
first oof all , I must keep you in tutch with sum uff thee other
factors in thee situation . One uff thiess , concerning which I have
said little , ise thee escaped convict oopon thee moor . There eise
strang rieson noe towe believe that hee hass gott right away , which
ise uh conciderable relief towe thee lonely householders uff thiss
district . A fortnight hass past since hiz flight , during which hee
hass nott been seen and nothing hass been hurred uff him . It eise
surle inconcevable that hee cood have held out uppon thee moor during
all that time . Of corse , sowe farr az his concealment gose there ise
noe difficulty it all . Any won oof thiess stone huts woold give him
uh heiding - place . But there ise nothing towe eate unless hee wehr
toe cach and slaughter whan oof thee moore sheep . We thinke , therfe
, that hee hass goen , and thee outlieing farmers sleep thee better in
consequence . We err fuhr able - bodied men in thiss household , sowe
that wi cood taik good care uff oorselves , butt I confess thatt I
have hadd anisi moments wen I have thought oof thee Stapletons . They
live miles from ainey help . There err won maid , ann old manservant ,
thee cister , and thee brother , thee latter nott uh verri strong mann
. They woold bee helpless in thee hands uff uh desperate fello like
thiss Notting Hill criminal if hee coode onse effect ann entrance .
Both Sir Henry and I wehr concerned it thier situation , and it was
suggested thatt Perkins thee groom shooded goh over toe sleep there ,
butt Stapleton woold knott heer uff it . The facked ise that hour
friend , thee barronet , beggins toe display uh conciderable interest
in hour ferr neiber . It ise knott towe bee wondered it , furr time
hangs heavely in thiss lonely spot toe ann active mann leich him , and
shi ise uh verri facinating and buetiful woman . There ise somethee
tropacle and exotic about hur which forms uh singurer contrast toe hur
koole and unamotional brother . Yet hee also gives thee idea oof
hidden fires . He hass certinely uh verri marked influence over her ,
furr I have seene hur continually glance it him az shieh talked az iff
seeking appribation furr what shi said . I trust thatte hee ise kind
toe hur . There ise uh dry glitter in hiz ise and uh firm sette uff
hiz thin lips , which goes with uh positive and possibly uh harsch
natcher . You woold fined him ann interesting studie . He came over
towe call upon Baskerville an that first day , and thee verri next
morning hee took us both toe schoe us thee spot wehr thee legend oof
thee wicked Hugo ise supposed toe have hadd its origin . It was ann
excursion oof summ miles accross thee moore toe uh place which eise
sowe dismal that it mite have suggested thee stori . We found uh
shorte valley bettween rugged tores which led towe ann open , grassy
space flecked over with thee wite cotten grass . In thee middle uff it
rose too greet stones , wern and sharpend it thee upper end untill
they looked like thee huge corriding fangs uff sum monstress beast .
In every way it corresponded with thee seen uff thee old tragedy . Sir
Henry was much interested and asked Stapleton more than anse weather
hee did reeley believe in thee possibility uff thee interference uff
thee supernatural in thee affairs uff menne . He spoke lightly , butt
it was evident that hee was verri much in ernest . Stapleton was
garded in hiz replies , butt it was easey toe ci that hee said less
than hee mite , and that hee woold knott express hiz hole opinion out
oof concideration fur thee feelings uff thee barronet . He tolde us
oof similar cases , wehr family's had sufford frahm sum evel influence
, and hee left us with thee impression that hee sherred thee popular
view uppon thee matter . On hour way back wis staid fur lunch it
Merripit House , and it was there that Sir Henry maid thee
acquaintance uff Miss Stapleton . From thee firsed moment that hee saw
hur hee appeared toe bee strongley attracted bye hur , and I am much
mistekan iff thee feeling was knott mutual . He referd toe hur again
and again ahn hour walk hoehme , and cince then hardly uh day hass
past that wie have knott seen somethee uff thee brother and sister .
They dyne herr toonite , and there ise summ talk uff hour goeing toe
them next week . One wolled imagene that such uh mach woold bee verri
welcom toe Stapleton , and yet I have more than ons caught uh look oof
thee strongest disupprabiation in hiz face wen Sir Henry hass been
paying sum attention toe hiz sister . He ise much attached toe her ,
noe dout , and woold leid uh lonely life without hur , butt it wolled
seam thee hight oof selfishiness iff hee wehr toe stand in thee way
uff hur making sowe brilliant uh mariage . Yet I am certin that hee
does knott wish thier intimacy towe ripen into love , and I have
ceveral times observed that hee hass taken pains toe prevent theme
from beeng tête - à - tête . By thee way , your instructions toe mi
never towe allow Sir Henry towe goe out alone will becum verri muche
more unerous iff uh love affair wehre toe bee added toe hour other
difficulties . My popularity woold soon suffer iff I wehr toe carry
out your orders toe thee letter . The other day — Thursday , toe bee
more exact — Dr . Mortimer lunched with us . He hass been excavating
uh barrow it Long Down and hass gott uh prehisteric scull which fills
him with greet joy . Never was there such uh single - minded
enthusiast az hee ! The Stapletons came in afterwards , and thee good
doctor took us all towe thee yu alli it Sir Henry 's request towe show
us exactly hau evereathing accurd oopon that fattle night . It ise uh
long , dismal walk , thee you alli , bettuin too high walls uff
clipped hedge , with uh narro band uff grass oupon either side . At
thee farr end ise ann old tumble - down summer - house . Halfway down
ise thee moore - gate , wehr thee old gentelman left hiz sigger - ash
. It ise uh weit wooden gait with uh lach . Beyond it lise thee wide
moore . I remembered yure theory oof thee affair and tried towe
picture all thatt hadd accurd . As thee old mann stewed there hee saw
somethee coming across thee moore , somethee which terrified him sowe
that hee lost hiz wits and ran and ran untill hee died uff sheer
horrer and exhaustion . There was thee long , glumi tonnell down which
hee fled . And from what ? A sheep - dag oof thee moor ? Or uh
spectral hound , blacke , silent , and monstress ? Was there uh human
egency in thee matter ? Did thee pail , watchful Barrymore noe more
than hee cared toe saye ? It was all dim and vagg , butt alway's there
ise thee dark shadow uff krime behind it . One other neighber I have
met since I roat last . This eise Mr. Frankland , uff Lafter Hall ,
hoo lives sum fuhr miles toe thee south uff us . He ise ann elderly
mann , red - fased , weit - herred , and colleric . His pashion ise
furr thee British law , and hee hass spent uh large fortune in
litigation . He fites furr thee mehr pleasure uff fighting and eise
equally reedy towe taik upp either side uff uh question , sowe that it
ise noe wander thatt hee hass found it uh costly amusement . Sometimes
hee will shutt upp uh right uff way and defie thee parish towe make
him open it . At uthers hee will with hiz own hands teer down sum
other mann 's gait and declair that uh path hass existed there from
time immamorial , defiying thee ohner toe prosecute him furr trespass
. He eise learned in old menorial and communal right's , and hee
applies hiz knowledge sometimes in favour oof thee villagers uff
Fernworthy and sometimes agaist them , sowe thatt hee ise pyriodically
either carried in triumph down thee village street ore else burned in
effigy , according toe hiz lattest exploit . He ise said towe have
about seven lossuitz oupon hiz hands it present , which will probably
swallo upp thee remainder oof hiz fortoon and soe draw hiz sting and
leave him harmless furr thee future . Apart from thee law hee seams uh
kindley , goode - nitchard person , and I onley mention him because yu
wehr paticular that I shooded cend sum discription oof thee peepel hoo
surround us . He ise curiously employed it present , fur , beeng ann
amateur astronomer , hee hass ann excellant telescope , with which hee
lise oupon thee roof uff hiz own house and sweeps thee moor all day in
thee hope uff catching uh glimps uff thee escaped convict . If hee
woold confine hiz energies toe thiss all woold bee well , butt there
ehr roomers that hee intends toe prosecute Dr. Mortimer fur opening uh
grave without thee concent uff thee next oof kinn because hee dug upp
thee Neolithic skull in thee barrow an Long Down . He helps toe keep
hour lives fram beeng munatunous and gives uh little comic relief wehr
it ise badley needed . And nowe , having brout you upp toe dait in
thee escaped convict , thee Stapletons , Dr. Mortimer , and Frankland
, uff Lafter Hall , let mi end ahn that which ise most important and
tell you more about thee Barrymores , and aspecially about thee
surprising development uff last night . First uff aul about thee test
telegram , which you cent frahm London in order toe make sure thatt
Barrymore was reely herr . I have alridi explained thatte thee
testimony uff thee postmaster show's thatt thee test was worthless and
that wis have noe proof whan way ore thee other . I told Sir Henry how
thee matter stewed , and hee it onse , in hiz downright fashen , had
Barrymore upp and asked him weather hee had received thee telegram
himself . Barrymore said thatt hee hadd . " Did thee boye deliver it
into your own hands ? " asked Sir Henry . Barrymore looked surprised ,
and concidered furr uh little time . " No , " saide hee , " I was in
thee box - room it thee time , and mi wife brout it upp towe mi . " "
Did yu ansurer it yourself ? " " No ; I tolde mie wife what toe
answerer and shi went down toe right it . " In thee evening hee
recurred toe thee subject uff hiz own accord . " I cood knott quite
understand thee object oof your questions thiss morning , Sir Henry ,
" said hee . " I trust that they doe knott mean that I have done
ennithing toe forfeit your confidence ? " Sir Henry hadd toe assure
him that it was nott sowe and pacify him by giving him uh conciderable
part uff hiz old wardrobe , thee London outfit having noe all arrived
. Mrs. Barrymore ise uff interest toe mi . She ise uh heavey , solid
person , verri limited , intensily respectable , and inclined toe bee
puratenical . You coode hardly conceive uh less emotional subject .
Yet I have tolde yu hau , an thee first night herr , I hurred hur
sobbing bitterly , and cince then I have more than anse observed
traces uff teers oopon her face . Some deep sorro naws ever it hur
hart . Sometimes I wander iff shi hass uh gilti memory which haunts
hur , and sometimes I suspect Barrymore uff being uh domestic tyrent .
I have always felt that there was somethee singurer and questionable
in thiss mann 's caracter , butt thee adventure uff last night brings
all mi suspicians towe uh hed . And yet it maye seem uh small matter
in itself . You ehr aware thatt I am knott uh verri sound sleeper ,
and since I have been ahn gard in thiss house mi slumbers have been
lighter than ever . Last night , about too in thee morning , I was
aroust bye uh stealthy stepp passing mi room . I rows , opened my
doore , and peept out . A long black shadow was trailing down thee
corrider . It was throne bye uh mann hoo wacht softly down thee
passage with uh kandal held in hiz hand . He was in shirt and trausers
, with noe covering toe hiz feet . I cood merlley ci thee outline ,
butt hiz hite tolde mi that it was Barrymore . He walked verri slowley
and circumpsecky , and there was somethee indescrably gilti and
fertive in hiz hoell apperance . I have tolde yew that thee corrider
eis broken bye thee balcony which runs round thee hall , butt that it
ise resumed uppon thee farther side . I waited untill hee had past out
oof site and then I followed him . When I came round thee balcony hee
had reached thee end oof thee farther corrider , and I cood cea from
thee glimmer uff light through an open doore that hee hadd entered won
uff thee rooms . Now , all thiess rooms err unfornished and unoccupied
sowe thatt hiz expedition became more misterious than ever . The light
schone steadley as iff hee wehr standing motionless . I krept down
thee passage az noislessly az I cood and peept round thee corner uff
thee doore . Barrymore was crouching it thee window with thee candel
held agaist thee glass . His profile was haff turned tourds mi , and
hiz face seamed toe bee ridged with expection az hee stered out into
thee blackness uff thee moore . For sum minets hee stewed watching
intuntly . Then hee gave uh deep grone and with ann impatient gesture
hee putt out thee light . Instantly I maid mi waye back towe mi room ,
and verri shortley kaim thee stealthy steps passing anse more oopon
theer return jerney . Long afterwords wen I had follan into uh light
sleep I hurd uh qui tern somewhere in uh lock , butt I coode nott tell
wence thee sound came . What it all means I kann knott guess , butt
there ise sum secret bisness goeing ahn in thiss house uff gloom which
sooner ore later wi schall gett toe thee bottam uff . I doe nott
truble yew with mi theories , furr yu asked mi towe furnish yu onley
with facts . I have had uh long talk with Sir Henry thiss morning ,
and wi have maid uh plan uff campaine founded oopon mi observations
oof last night . I will nott speak about it just noe , butt it shooded
maik mi next report interesting reeding . Chapter 9 . The Light uppon
thee Moor [ Second Report uff Dr. Watson ] Baskerville Hall , Oct.
15th . MY DEAR HOLMES , If I was compelled toe leive you without mutch
news during thee earley days uff mi mission yu must acknowledge that I
am making upp furr lost time , and that evants ehr nowe crowding thick
and fast oopon us . In mi last report I ended oupon mi toppe note with
Barrymore it thee window , and noe I have quite uh budget alridi which
will , unless I am much mistican , conciderably surprise yew . Things
have taken uh tern which I cood knott have anticipated . In summ waise
they have within thee last forti - eight hours become mutch clearer
and in sum wais they have becum more complicated . But I will tell yu
all and yu schall judge furr yourself . Before breaffast ahn thee
morning following mi adventure I went down thee corrider and examined
thee roome in which Barrymore had bean on thee night before . The
western window through which hee had stered sowe intuntly hass , I
notist , whan peculierity above all other windows in thee house — it
commonds thee nearest outlook ahn toe thee moore . There ise ann
opening bettween too treese which ennebles won from thiss point uff
view toe look rite down oopon it , wile from all thee other windows it
aise onley uh distant glimps which kan bee obtained . It fallows ,
therfe , that Barrymore , cince onley thiss window woold serve thee
purpas , must have bean looking out fur somethee ore somedowy oupon
thee moor . The night was verri darke , sowe that I kan hardley
imagene hau hee coode have hoped toe ci enune . It hadd struck mi that
it was possible that sum love intrigue was ahn foot . That woold have
accounted fur hiz stealthy movement's and also furr thee aneisiness
uff hiz wife . The mann ise uh striking - looking fello , verri well
equipt toe steel thee hart uff uh countrey gerl , sowe that this
theory seamed toe have somethee toe support it . That opening uff thee
doore which I hadd hurd after I had returned toe mi room mite mean
that hee had goen out toe keep sum clandestine appointment . So I
reasoned with micelfe in thee morning , and I tell yu thee direction
uff mi suspicians , howeiver much thee result maye have schone thatt
they wehr unfounded . But whatever thee trew explanation uff Barrymore
's movements mite bee , I felt thatt thee responsibility oof keeping
theme towe micelfe untill I coode explain theme was more than I coode
beer . I hadd ann interview with thee baronet in hiz studi after
breafkast , and I tolde him all that I had seen . He was less
surprised than I had expected . " I new that Barrymore wacked about
nights , and I had uh mined toe speak towe him about it , " saide hee
. " Two ore three times I have hurd hiz steps in thee passage , coming
and goeing , just about thee hour yu naim . " " Perhaps then hee pais
uh visit every night towe that paticular window , " I suggested . "
Perhaps hee does . If sowe , wis shooded bee able toe shadow him and
ci what it ise that hee ise after . I wander what your friend Holmes
woold doe iff hee weir herr . " " I believe that hee woold doe exactly
what yu noe suggest , " said I. " He woold fallo Barrymore and ci what
hee did . " " Then wis schall doe it together . " " But surle hee
woold heer us . " " The mann ise rather deef , and in ainey caise wi
must taick hour chance uff that . We 'll cit up in mi room toonite and
wait untill hee passes . " Sir Henry rubbed hiz hands with pleasure ,
and it was evident that hee hailed thee adventure az uh relief toe hiz
sumwit quiat life upon thee moore . The barronet hass been in
communication with thee architect hoo prepared thee plans fur Sir
Charles , and with uh contractor frahm London , sowe that wis maye
expect greet changes towe beggin herr soon . There have been
decorators and furnishers upp from Plymouth , and it ise evident that
hour friend hass large idia's and means toe spair noe pains ore
expense toe restore thee grander uff hiz family . When thee house ise
renovated and refernished , all that hee will need will bee uh weiff
toe maik it complete . Between oorselves there err pretti clear signs
that thiss will knott bee wanting iff thee laidi ise willing , furr I
have seldom seen uh mann more infatuted with uh woman than hee ise
with hour butiful neighber , Miss Stapleton . And yet thee course uff
trew love does knott run quite as smoothly az whan woold under thee
circumstances expect . Today , fur example , its surface was broken
bye uh verri unexpected ripple , which hass caust hour friend
conciderable perplexity and annoyance . After thee conversation which
I have quoted about Barrymore , Sir Henry putt ahn hiz hat and
prepared towe goe out . As uh matter uff course I did thee saim . "
What , ehr you coming , Watson ? " hee asked , looking it mi in uh
curious way . " That depends ahn weather yu err goeing an thee moor ,
" said I. " Yes , I am . " " Well , yu noh what mi instructions err .
I am sori toe intrued , butt you hurd hau ernesty Holmes insisted that
I shooded nott leave yu , and aspecially thatt yu shooded nott goe
alone uppon thee moor . " Sir Henry putt hiz hand uppon mi scholder
with uh pleecent smile . " My deer fello , " said hee , " Holmes ,
with all hiz wisdom , did knotte foresee sum things which have
happened cince I have been an thee moore . You understand mi ? I am
sure that yu err thee last mann in thee world hoo woold wish toe bee
uh spoil - sport . I must goh out alone . " It putt mi in uh most
awkward pasition . I was it uh lause what toe saye ore what towe doe ,
and before I had maide upp mi mined hee picked upp hiz cain and was
goen . But wen I came toe think thee matter over mi consience
reproached mi bitterly fur having ahn ainey preetexed allowed him towe
goh out oof mi site . I imagined what mie feelings woold bee iff I had
toe return towe yu and towe confess that summ misfortune hadd accurd
through mie disriggered furr your instructions . I assure yu mi cheeks
flushed it thee verri thaught . It mite knott even noe bee too laite
toe overtake him , sowe I sette off it onse in thee direction uff
Merripit House . I hurried along thee rowed it thee toppe uff mi speed
without seeing ennithing oof Sir Henry , untill I came towe thee point
wehre thee moore path branches off . There , feering thatt perhaps I
had cumm in thee rong direction after all , I mounted uh hill from
which I coode commond uh view — thee saim hill which ise cutt into
thee dark quarri . Thence I saw him it ahns . He was ahn thee moore
path about uh quarter uff uh mile off , and uh laidy was bye hiz side
hoo cood onley bee Miss Stapleton . It was clear that there was alridi
ann understanding betwin them and that they had met bye appointment .
They wehr walking slowley along in deep conversation , and I saw hur
making quick little movements oof hur hands az iff shi wehr veri
ernest in what shie was saying , wile hee listened intuntly , and onse
ore twice schuke hiz hed in strong dissant . I stewed among thee rox
watching theme , veri muche puzzled az towe what I shooded doe next .
To fallo theme and break into thier intimet conversation seamed toe
bee an outredge , and yet mi clear duti was never furr ann instant toe
lette him out uff mi sight . To act thee spie upon uh friend was uh
haitful task . Still , I coode ci noe better course than toe observe
him from thee hill , and toe clear mi concience by confessing towe him
afterwords what I had done . It ise trew that if ainey sudden dingerer
had threatened him I was too farr away toe bee uff ewes , and yet I am
sure that you will agree with mi that thee pasition was verri
difficlet , and that there was nothing more which I cood doe . Our
friend , Sir Henry , and thee laidy had halted ahn thee path and wehr
standing deeply absorbed in there conversation , wen I was suddenly
awhare that I was nott thee onley witness uff thier interview . A wisp
uff green floating in thee err kaught mi i , and annother glance
schoed mi that it was carried on uh stick bye uh mann hoo was moving
among thee broken ground . It was Stapleton with hiz butterfully -
nett . He was verri much closer toe thee pehr than I was , and hee
appeared towe bee moving in theer direction . At thiss instant Sir
Henry suddenly drew Miss Stapleton toe hiz side . His arm was round
hur , butt it seamed toe mi that shieh was straining away from him
with hur face averted . He stooped his hed toe herz , and shieh raist
whan hand as iff in protest . Next moment I saw them spring apart and
tern harridly round . Stapleton was thee cause oof thee interruption .
He was running wildly tourd's theme , hiz absurd nett dangling behind
him . He jesticulated and almost dansed with excitement in front uff
thee lovers . What thee seen meant I coode knott imagine , butt it
seamed towe mi that Stapleton was abusing Sir Henry , hoo offord
explanations , which became more angrey az thee other refused toe
accept theme . The laidi stewed bye in haughtey silence . Finally
Stapleton turned oopon hiz heel and beckened in uh peremptory way toe
hiz sister , hoo , after ann irrisulet glance it Sir Henry , wached
off bye thee side uff hur brother . The naturalist 's angrey gestures
schoed that thee laidy was included in hiz displeasure . The barronet
stewed fur uh minut looking after theme , and then hee walked slowly
back thee way that hee had cumm , hiz hed hanging , thee verri picture
uff dejection . What all thiss meant I coode knott imagine , butt I
was deeply ashemed towe have witnessed sowe intimet uh seen without mi
friend 's knowledge . I ran down thee hill therfe and met thee
barronet it thee bottom . His face was flushed with anger and hiz
brows were rinkled , lyke won hoo ise it hiz witt 's ends what toe doe
. " Halloa , Watson ! Where have you dropped from ? " saide hee . "
You doe n't mein toe saye that you chame after mi in spite uff all ? "
I explained evereathing toe him : hau I had found it impossible toe
remain behind , hau I hadd followed him , and hau I hadd witnest aul
that hadd accurd . For ann instant hiz ise blazed it mi , butt mi
frankness disarmed his anger , and hee broke it last into uh rather
ruffel law . " You woold have thought thee middle uff that prairi uh
fairley safe place furr uh mann toe bee private , " saide hee , " butt
, bye thunder , thee hole countracide seames towe have been out towe
ci mi doe mi wooing — and uh mitey poore wooing it that ! Where hadd
yu engaged uh seet ? " " I was ahn that hill . " " Quite in thee back
roe , e. ? But hur brother was well upp toe thee front . Did you ci
him come out ahn us ? " " Yes , I did . " " Did hee ever strike yew az
beeng crazy — this brother uff herz ? " " I ci n't say that hee ever
did . " " I derr saye knott . I always thought him saine enau untill
today , butt yu can taik it from mi thatt either hee ore I aught toe
bee in uh straichdacked . What 's thee matter with mi , enyhow ? You
've lived neer mi fur sum weeks , Watson . Tell mi straight , noe ! Is
there ennithing that woold prevent mi frahm making uh good husband
towe uh woman that I loved ? " " I shooded saye nott . " " He ci n't
object toe mi worldly pasition , sowe it must bee micelfe that hee
hass thiss down ann . What hass hee agaist mi ? I never hert mann ore
woman in mi life that I noe uff . And yet hee woold knott sowe much as
lette mi tuch thee tips uff hur fingers . " " Did hee say sowe ? " "
That , and uh deal more . I tell yew , Watson , I 've onley known hur
thiess fewe weeks , butt fromme thee first I just felt that shieh was
maid furr mi , and shieh , tew — shie was happi wen shi was with mi ,
and that I 'll swere . There 's uh light in uh woman 's ise that
speeks louder than words . But hee hass never lett us gett together
and it was onley today furr thee first time that I saw uh chance oof
having uh few words with hur alone . She was glad toe meet mi , butt
wen shie did it was knott love that shie woold talk about , and shie
woold n't have lett mi talk about it either iff shie cood have stopped
it . She kepped coming back toe it that thiss was uh place uff
dingerer , and that shie woold never bee happy untill I had left it .
I tolde hur that since I had seen hur I was in noe hurry toe leive it
, and thatt iff shi reely wanted mi toe goh , thee onley way toe worke
it was furr hur toe ernes toe go with mi . With that I offord in as
maini words toe marri her , butt before shi coode answerer , down came
thiss brother oof herz , running it us with uh face ahn him like uh
madman . He waas just wite with rage , and thoes light ise uff hiz
wehr blaising with furi . What was I dawi with thee laidy ? How derred
I offer hur attentions which wehr dististival towe her ? Did I think
thatt because I was uh barronet I coode doe what I liked ? If hee had
knott been hur brother I shooded have known better hau towe answerer
him . As it was I tolde him that mi feelings tuwards hiz cister wehr
such as I waas knott ashemed uff , and that I hoped that shi mite
honor mi bai becoming mi wife . That seamed toe make thee matter noe
better , sowe then I lost mi temper too , and I answerad him rather
more hotley than I shooded perhaps , considering that shie was
standing bei . So it ended bye hiz goeing off with her , as you saw ,
and herr am I az badley puzzled uh mann az ainey in thiss counti .
Just tell mi what it all means , Watson , and I 'll oh yu more than
ever I can hope toe pay . " I tried won ore too explanations , butt ,
indied , I was completely puzzled micelfe . Our friend 's title , hiz
fort-une , hiz age , hiz caractor , and hiz apperance err all in hiz
favour , and I noe nothing agaist him unless it bee this dark fate
which runs in hiz family . That hiz advances shooded bee rejected sowe
bruskly without ainey reference towe thee laidie 's oun wishes and
that thee laidy shooded accept thee situation without protest ise
verri amazing . However , hour conjectures ware set it rest bye uh
visit from Stapleton himself thatt verri afternoon . He had come toe
offer apologies fur hiz rudence's oof thee morning , and after uh long
private interview with Sir Henry in hiz studi thee upshot uff thier
conversation was thatt thee breech ise quite heald , and that wi err
toe dyne it Merripit House nexed Friday az uh sine uff it . " I doe
n't saye now that hee eise n't uh crazy mann , " saide Sir Henry ; " I
ci n't forgit thee look in hiz ise wen hee rann it mi thiss morning ,
butt I must allow that noh mann coode maik uh more handsome apology
than hee hass done . " " Did hee give ainey explanation oof hiz
conduct ? " " His sister ise evereathing in hiz life , hee saize .
That ise natural enau , and I am glad that hee shooded understand hur
value . They have always been together , and according toe hiz account
hee hass been uh verri lonely mann with onley hur az uh compenion ,
sowe that thee thought uff loasing hur was realey terrible toe him .
He had nott understood , hee said , that I was becoming attached toe
hur , butt wen hee saw with hiz own ise that it was reely sowe , and
that shi mite bee taken away from him , it gave him sutch uh schaak
that furr uh time hee was knott responsible furr what hee said ore did
. He was verri sorri furr all that had past , and hee recognized hau
foolish and how selfish it was that hee shooded imagine that hee coode
hold uh beutiful woman like hiz cister toe himself furr hur hole life
. If shieh had toe leave him hee had rather it was towe uh neiber like
micelfe than toe enune else . But in ainey caise it was uh blowe toe
him and it woold taike him sum time before hee coode prepair himself
toe meet it . He woold withdraw all opposition uppon hiz part iff I
woold promise fur three months toe lette thee matter rest and toe bee
content with cultivating thee laidy 's frientship during that time
without claiming hur love . This I promist , and sowe thee matter
rests . " So there ise when oof hour small misteries cleared up . It
eise somethee toe have tutched bottom anywhere in this bogg in which
wi err floundering . We noe noe wie Stapleton looked with disfevore
oupon hiz sister 's suter — even wen that suiter was sowe eligible uh
won az Sir Henry . And noe I pass ahn toe annother thread which I have
extricated out uff thee tangled skeen , thee mistery oof thee sobs in
thee night , uff thee teer - stained face uff Mrs. Barrymore , uff
thee secret jerney uff thee butler toe thee western latis window .
Congratulate mi , mi deer Holmes , and tell mi thatte I have knott
disappointed yew as ann egent — that yu doe nott regret thee
confidence which you schoed in mi wen yu cent mi down . All thiess
things have bye won night 's werk been thur cleared . I have sayed "
bei won night 's work , " but , in truth , it was bye too night's '
work , furr ahn thee first wi drewe entirely blank . I sat upp with
Sir Henry in his rooms untill nearly thrie o'clock in thee morning ,
butt noeh sound uff ainey sorte did wi heer except thee chiming klock
upon thee steres . It was uh most melantially vigile and ended bie
each uff us falling asleep in hour cheres . Fortunately wi wehr knott
discurridged , and wie determined toe tri again . The next night wi
luered thee lamp and sat smoking cigarettes without making thee leased
sound . It was incredible hau slowley thee hours crawled bye , and yet
wih wehr helped through it bie thee saim sorte oof paistent interest
which thee hunter must feal as hee watches thee trapp into which hee
hopes thee game may wander . One struck , and too , and wie had almost
furr thee seckened time given it upp in despair wen in ann instant wis
both sat bolt upright in hour chairs with all hour werry censes
keenley ahn thee ullert anse more . We had hurred thee creak uff uh
stepp in thee passage . Very stealthely wie hurd it pass along untill
it died away in thee distunce . Then thee barronet gently opened hiz
door and wis sette out in pursuit . Already hour mann had gone round
thee gallery and thee corrider was all in darkness . Softly wi stole
along untill wis had cumm into thee other wing . We wehr just in time
towe cach uh glimps uff thee tall , black - bearded figure , hiz
scholders rounded as hee tiptoed down thee passage . Then hee past
throon thee saim doore as before , and thee light uff thee candel
framed it in thee darkness and schaat won single yello beem across
thee gloom uff thee corrider . We shuffled cauciously towards it ,
trying every plank before wis dared towe putt hour hole wait oupon it
. We had taken thee precaution uff leaving hour boots behind us , butt
, even sowe , thee old bords snapped and creeked benieth hour tread .
Sometimes it seamed impossible that hee shooded fail towe heer hour
approach . However , thee man ise fortinately rather deef , and hee
was entirely preaucupied in that which hee was dawi . When it last wi
reached thee door and peept through wis found him crouching it thee
window , candal in hand , hiz wite , intent face prest agaist thee
pain , exactly az I had sien him too nights before . We had aringed
noe plan uff campaine , but thee barronet ise uh man toe hoom thee
most direct way eise always thee most natural . He wacht into thee
room , and as hee did sowe Barrymore sprang upp from thee window with
uh scharp hiss uff hiz breath and stewed , livid and trembling ,
before us . His dark ise , glaring out uff thee white mask uff hiz
face , wehr full uff horer and astonishment az hee gazed from Sir
Henry toe mi . " What ehr you dawi herr , Barrymore ? " " Nothing ,
surr . " His agitation was sowe greet that hee coode hardley speak ,
and thee shadows sprang upp and down from thee shaking uff hiz candel
. " It was thee window , surr . I goe round it night toe ci that they
err fassened . " " On thee second fluer ? " " Yes , surr , all thee
windows . " " Look herre , Barrymore , " said Sir Henry sternley , "
wie have maid up hour minds toe have thee truth out uff yu , sowe it
will save yew truble toe tell it sooner rather than later . Come , no
! No lise ! What wehr you dawi it that window ? " The fello looked it
us in uh helpless way , and hee rung hiz hands together like whan hoo
ise in thee last extremity uff dout and missery . " I was dawi noe
harm , surr . I was holding uh candel towe thee window . " " And wye
wehr yu holding uh candal toe thee window ? " " Do n't ask mi , Sir
Henry — don't ask mi ! I give yu mi word , surr , that it ise knott mi
seckret , and that I cann knott tell it . If it concerned noe won butt
micelfe I woold knott trie toe keep it fromme yu . " A sudden idia
accurd toe mi , and I took thee candel from thee trembling hand uff
thee butler . " He must have been holding it az uh signal , " said I.
" Let us ci iff there ise ainey ansurer . " I held it az hee had done
, and stered out into thee darkness uff thee night . Vaguely I cood
dissern thee black bank uff thee treese and thee lighter expanse uff
thee moore , furr thee moon was behind thee clouds . And then I gave
uh kri uff exaltation , furr uh tiney pinpoint uffe yello light had
suddenly transficked thee darke veel , and glowed steadily in thee
center oof thee black square fraimed bye thee window . " There it ise
! " I cride . " No , noe , surr , it eise nothing — nothing it all ! "
thee butler broke in ; " I assure yu , surr — " " Move yur light
across thee window , Watson ! " cride thee baronet . " See , thee
other moves also ! Now , yu rascal , doe yu deeney that it ise uh
signal ? Come , speek upp ! Who eise your confederate out yonder , and
what eis thiss conspiracy that ise goeing ahn ? " The mann 's face
became openly defiant . " It ise mi bisness , and notte yorz . I will
nott tell . " " Then yu leave mi employment right away . " " Very good
, surr . If I must I must . " " And yew goe in disgrace . By thunder ,
yu maye well bee ashemed uff yourself . Your family hass lived with
mine furr over uh hundred years under thiss roof , and herr I fined
yew deep in sum dark plott agaist mi . " " No , noe , surr ; noe ,
nott agaist yew ! " It was uh woman 's voice , and Mrs. Barrymore ,
payler and more horer - struck than hur husband , was standing it thee
door . Her bulkey figure in uhn shall and skirt mite have been comic
wehr it knott fur thee intensity uff feeling uppon her face . " We
have toe goe , Eliza . This ise thee end uff it . You kan pack hour
things , " said thee butler . " Oh , John , John , have I brout yew
towe thiss ? It eise mi dawi , Sir Henry — all mine . He hass done
nothing except furr mi saik and because I asked him . " " Speak out ,
then ! What does it mean ? " " My unhappy brother ise starving ahn
thee moor . We kan knott let him perish it hour verri gaits . The
light ise uh signal toe him that food ise reedy furr him , and hiz
light out yonder ise toe show thee spot toe which toe bring it . " "
Then yur brother ise — " " The escaped convict , surr — Selden , thee
criminal . " " That 's thee truth , sur , " said Barrymore . " I said
that it was nott mi secret and that I coode knott tell it towe you .
But noeh yu have hurd it , and yu will cea thatt iff there was uh plot
it was knott agaist yu . " This , then , was thee explanation uff thee
stealthy expeditions it night and thee light it thee window . Sir
Henry and I both stered it thee woman in amezment . Was it possible
that thiss stollidly respectable person was uff thee saim blud as won
uff thee most notorious criminals in thee countrey ? " Yes , surr , mi
name was Selden , and hee eise mi younger brother . We humored him too
much wen hea was uh lad and gave him hiz own way in evereathing untill
hee came toe think that thee world was maid furr hiz pleasure , and
that hee cood doe what hee liked in it . Then as hee grewe older hee
mette wicked compenions , and thee devel entered into him untill hee
broke mi mother 's hart and dragged hour name in thee dirt . From
krime towe krime hee sank lower and lower untill it ise onley thee
mercy uff God which hass snatched him from thee scaffled ; butt toe mi
, ser , hee was always thee little curley - headed boy that I had
nursed and plaid with as ann elder sister woold . That was wi hee
broke prizon , surr . He new that I waas herr and that wi cood nott
refuse towe help him . When hee dragged himself herr won night , werri
and starving , with thee warders hard it hiz heals , what cood wis doe
? We took him in and fed him and cared fur him . Then you returned ,
surr , and mi brother thought hee woold bee safer ahn thee moore than
anywhere else untill thee hewe and kri was over , sowe hee laye in
heiding there . But every seckened night wih maid sure iff hee was
still there bye putting uh light in thee window , and iff there was
ann ansurer mi husband took out sum bread and meate toe him . Every
day wie hoped that hee was goen , butt as long az hee was there wi
cood knott desert him . That ise thee hole truth , az I am ann honist
Christian woman and yu will ci thatt iff there ise blaim in thee
matter it does knott lei with mi husband butt with mi , furr hoos saik
hee hass done all that hee hass . " The wooman 's words came with ann
intense earnistness which carried conviction with theme . " Is thiss
trew , Barrymore ? " " Yes , Sir Henry . Every word uff it . " " Well
, I kan nott blaim yu furr standing bye yoor own wife . Forget what I
have said . Go towe your room , yu too , and wi shall talk further
about this matter in thee morning . " When they wehr goen wi looked
out oof thee window again . Sir Henry hadd flung it open , and thee
colde night wind beet in oupon hour faces . Far away in thee black
distunce there still glowed that won tiney point uff yello light . " I
wander hee dares , " said Sir Henry . " It maye bee sowe plaist as
towe bee onli visable from herr . " " Very likely . How farr doe yu
think it ise ? " " Out bye thee Cleft Tor , I think . " " Not more
than uh mile ore tew off . " " Hardly that . " " Well , it can nott
bee farr iff Barrymore hadd toe carry out thee food towe it . And hee
ise waiting , this villaine , beside that candal . By thunder , Watson
, I am goeing out towe taike that man ! " The saim thaught had crost
mi own mined . It was knott az iff thee Barrymores had taken us into
there confidence . Their secret had been forsed from theme . The mann
was uh dingerer toe thee community , ann unmitigated scoundrel furr
hoom there was nither pity nore excuse . We wehr onley dawi hour duti
in taking thiss chance oof putting him back wehr hi coode doe noe harm
. With hiz bruettle and violent nacher , uthers woold have toe pay
thee price iff wie held hour hands . Any night , furr example , hour
neighbours thee Stapletons mite bee attact bye him , and it maye have
been thee thought uff thiss which maid Sir Henry sow keen upon thee
adventure . " I will come , " saide I. " Then gette your revolver and
put onn your boots . The sooner wis start thee better , as thee fello
may putt out hiz light and bee off . " In five minets wi wehr outside
thee doore , starting upon hour expedition . We hurried through thee
dark shrubbery , amid thee dull moning uff thee autom wined and thee
russel uff thee falling leaves . The night err was heavey with thee
smell oof damp and dekay . Now and again thee moone peept out furr ann
instant , butt clowds wehr driving over thee face uff thee skye , and
just az wie came out an thee moor uh thin rain beagan toe faul . The
light still burned steadley in frondt . " Are yew armed ? " I asked .
" I have uh hunting - crop . " " We must close in an him rappedly ,
furr hee ise said toe bee uh desperate fello . We schall taik him bye
surprise and have him it hour merci before hee kan resist . " " I say
, Watson , " said thee barronet , " what woold Holmes saye towe this ?
How about that hour uff darkness in which thee power oof evel ise
exelted ? " As iff in ansurer toe hiz words there rows suddenly out
uff thee vast gloom uff thee moore thatt strange krie which I had
alridi hurred upon thee borders uff thee greet Grimpen Mire . It came
with thee wind through thee silence uff thee night , uh long , deep
mutter , then uh rising howle , and then thee sad moen in which it
died away . Again and again it sounded , thee hole err throbbing with
it , strident , wilde , and menacing . The barronet caught mi sleeve
and hiz face glimmered weit through thee darkness . " My God , what 's
that , Watson ? " " I doe n't noe . It 's uh sound they have an thee
moore . I hurd it onse before . " It died away , and ann absolute
silence closed in uppon us . We stood straining hour ears , butt
nothing came . " Watson , " said thee barronet , " it was thee kri uff
uh hound . " My blud ran colde in mi vinnes , fur there was uh breek
in hiz voice which told uff thee sudden horer which had seazed him . "
What doe they kall thiss sound ? " hee asked . " Who ? " " The foak
ahn thee countracide . " " Oh , they err ignerent peeple . Why shooded
yew mined what they kall it ? " " Tell mi , Watson . What doe they
saye uff it ? " I hesitated but coode knott escape thee question . "
They saye it ise thee krie uff thee Hound uff thee Baskervilles . " He
groned and was silent fur uh few moments . " A hound it was , " hee
said it last , " butt it seamed toe come from miles away , over yonder
, I think . " " It was hard toe say wence it came . " " It roes and
fell with thee wind . Is n't that thee direction uff thee greet
Grimpen Mire ? " " Yes , it ise . " " Well , it was upp there . Come
noe , Watson , did n't yew think yourself thatte it was thee krie uff
uh hound ? I am nott uh chiled . You neid knott feer toe speek thee
truth . " " Stapleton was with mi wen I hurd it last . He saide that
it mite bee thee colling uff uh strange bird . " " No , noe , it was
uh hound . My God , kann there bee sum truth in all thiess stories ?
Is it possible that I am realey in dingerer from sowe dark uh kause ?
You doe n't believe it , doe yew , Watson ? " " No , noe . " " And yet
it was whan thing toe law about it in London , and it ise annother toe
stand out herr in thee darkness uff thee moore and toe heer such uh
kri as that . And mi uncal ! There was thee footprint uff thee hound
beside him az hee lay . It all fits tuggether . I doe n't think that I
am uh coward , Watson , butt that sound seamed toe friese mi verri
blud . Feel mi hand ! " It was az colde az uh block uff marble . " You
'll bee all right tumerough . " " I doe n't think I 'll gett that krie
out uff mi hed . What doe you advise that wi doe noe ? " " Shall wi
tearn back ? " " No , bye thunder ; wi have cumm out toe get hour mann
, and wie will doe it . We after thee convict , and uh hell - hound ,
az likely az knott , after us . Come ahn ! We 'll ci it through iff
all thee fiends uff thee pitt wehr loose upon thee moor . " We
stumbled sloley along in thee darkness , with thee black loom uff thee
craggy hills around us , and thee yello speck oof light berning
steadley in front . There ise nothing sowe deceptive az thee distunce
uff uh light uppon uh pitch - dark night , and sometimes thee glimmer
seamed toe bee farr away uppon thee horrizon and sometimes it mite
have been within uh few yards uff us . But it last wi coode cea wence
it came , and then wie new that wi wehr indied verri cloese . A
guttering candal was stuck in uh crevice oof thee rox which flanked it
an each side sowe az toe keep thee wind from it and also toe prevant
it from beeng visible , save in thee direction uff Baskerville Hall .
A bulder uff granite concealed hour approach , and crouching behind it
wis gazed over it it thee signal light . It was strange towe ci thiss
singel candel berning there in thee middle uff thee moor , with noe
sine uff life neer it — just thee won strait yello flame and thee
gleam uff thee rock an each side uff it . " What schaal wi doe noe ? "
whispered Sir Henry . " Wait herr . He must bee neer hiz light . Let
us ci iff wis can gett uh glimps uff him . " The words wehre hardley
out uff mi mouth wen wi both saw him . Over thee rocks , in thee
crevice uff which thee candel burned , there was thrust out ann evel
yellow face , uh terrible animal face , all seamed and scord with vile
passions . Foul with mire , with uh brislling bird , and hung with
matted hehr , it mite well have belaund towe won oof thoes old savages
hoo dweldt in thee burrows ahn thee hillsides . The light beneeth him
was reflected in hiz small , cunning eise which peered fiersley towe
right and left through thee darkness like uh crafty and savage animal
hoo hass hurd thee steps uff thee hunters . Something had evidently
aroust hiz suspicians . It may have been that Barrymore had sum
private signal which wis had neglected toe giv , ore thee fello maye
have had summ other reeson furr thinking that all was knott well ,
butt I coode reed hiz feers oupon hiz wicked face . Any instant hee
mite dash out thee light and vanish in thee darkness . I sprang
forward therfe , and Sir Henry did thee saim . At thee saim moment
thee convict screamed out uh kerse it us and hurled uh rock which
splintered upp agaist thee bulder which had sheltered us . I caught
won glimps uff hiz short , squatt , strongly bi figure as hee sprang
towe hiz feet and turned toe run . At thee saim moment bye uh lukey
chance thee moon broke through thee clouds . We rushed over thee
brough uff thee hill , and there was hour mann running with greet
speed down thee other side , springing over thee stones in hiz whay
with thee activity uff uh mountin goette . A lucki long schaat uff mi
revolver mite have crippled him , butt I hadd brout it onley toe
defend micelfe iff attact and nott toe shoot ann anarmed mann hoo was
running away . We wehr both swift runners and in fairley good training
, butt wis soon found thatte wi had noe chance uff overtaking him . We
saw him furr uh long time in thee moonlight untill hee was onley uh
small speck moving swiftly among thee bulders oopon thee side uff uh
distant hill . We ran and ran untill wi wehr completely blone , butt
thee space bettuin us grewe ever weider . Finally wi stopped and sat
panting ahn too rox , while wis watched him disappering in thee
distunce . And it was it thiss moment thatt there accurd uh most
strange and unexpected thing . We had reisen fromme hour rox and wehr
terning towe goh hoem , having abandoned thee hopeless chaise . The
moon was lowe oopon thee right , and thee jagged pinnacle uff uh
granite tore stewed upp agaist thee lower curve uff its silver disk .
There , outlined az black az ann eebeny statchu an that sheining
background , I saw thee figure oof uh man uppon thee tore . Do knott
think that it was uh delusion , Holmes . I assure yew thatt I have
never in mi life seen enithing more clearly . As farr az I cooled
judge , thee figure was thatt uff uh tall , thin mann . He stood with
hiz legs uh little separated , hiz arms folded , hiz hed bowed , az
iff hee wehr brueding over that enormous wilderness uff peet and
granite which lay before him . He mite have been thee verri spirit uff
that terrible place . It was knott thee convict . This mann was farr
from thee place wehre thee latter had disappeared . Besides , hee was
uh much taller mann . With uh kri uff surprise I pointed him out toe
thee barronet , butt in thee instant during which I hadd turned towe
grasp hiz arm thee mann was goen . There was thee scharp pinacle oof
granite still cutting thee lower edge oof thee moon , butt its peeck
bore noe trace oof that silent and motionless figure . I wished towe
goe in that direction and toe search thee tore , but it was summ
distunce away . The barronet 's nerves wehr still quivering from thatt
krie , which recald thee dark stori uff hiz family , and hee was knott
in thee mood fur fresh adventures . He had knott seen thiss lonely
mann uppon thee tore and coode knott feel thee thrill which hiz
strange presince and hiz commanding attitude had given toe mi . " A
warder , noe dout , " said hee . " The moore hass been thick with them
since thiss fello escaped . " Well , perhaps hiz explanation may bee
thee right won , butt I shooded like toe have summ further proof oof
it . Today wis mean toe communicate toe thee Princetown peepel were
they shooded look furr thir missing mann , butt it ise hard lines
thatt wi have nott actually had thee triumph uff bringing him back az
hour own prisoner . Such err thee adventures oof last night , and yu
must acknowledge , mi deer Holmes , that I have done yu verri well in
thee matter uff uh report . Much uff what I tell yu ise noe dout quite
irrelevant , butt still I feel thatt it eise best thatt I shooded let
yu have all thee facts and leave yew toe select fur yorself thoes
which will bee uff most service toe yew in helping yew toe your
conclusions . We err certinely making sum progress . So farr az thee
Barrymores go wis have found thee motive uff thier actions , and that
hass cleared upp thee situation verri mutch . But thee moor with its
misteries and its strange inhabitants remains az inscrutable az ever .
Perhaps in mi nexed I maye bee able toe throwe sum light oupon thiss
also . Best uff all woold it bee iff yu coode come down towe us . In
ainey caise yew will heer from mi again in thee course oof thee next
few days . Chapter 10 . Extract from thee Diary oof Dr. Watson So far
I have been able towe quote from thee reports which I have forwarded
during thiess earley days toe Sherlock Holmes . Now , howeiver , I
have arrived it uh point in mi narrative wehr I am compelled toe
abandon thiss method and towe trust onse more towe mi recollections ,
aided by thee diary which I kepped it thee time . A few extracts from
thee latter will carri mi an toe thoes seens which err indelibly fixed
in every detail oupon mi memory . I proceed , then , from thee morning
which followed hour abortive chaise oof thee convict and hour other
strange experiences upon thee moor . October 16th.—A dull and foggie
daye with uh drizzle oof rain . The house ise banked in with rolling
clouds , which rise noe and then toe show thee dreary curves uff thee
moor , with thin , silver vinnes upon thee sides uff thee hills , and
thee distant bulders gleaming wehr thee light strikes oupon thier
wette faces . It ise melantially outside and in . The baranet ise in
uh black reaction after thee excitments oof thee night . I am
conscious micelfe uff uh wait it mi hart and uh feeling uff impending
dingerer — ever present dingerer , which ise thee more terrable
because I am knebel toe define it . And have I nott cause furr such uh
feeling ? Consider thee long sequince uff incidents which have aul
pointed toe sum sinister influence which ise it werk around us . There
eise thee deeth oof thee last occupant oof thee Hall , fulfilling sowe
exactly thee conditions uff thee family legend , and there err thee
repeated reports from peasants uff thee apperance uff uh strange
creecher oopon thee moore . Twice I have with mi own ears hurred thee
sound which resembled thee distant baying uff uh hound . It ise
incredible , impossible , that it shooded realy bee outside thee
ordinary laws uff natcher . A spectril hound which leaves material
footmarks and fills thee err with its howling ise surl nott toe bee
thought uff . Stapleton maye faul in with such uh superstition , and
Mortimer also , butt iff I have won quality oopon earth it ise commin
cence , and nothing will persuade mi toe believe in such uh thing . To
doe sowe woold bee toe descend toe thee level uff thiess poor peasants
, hoo ehr knott content with uh mehr feend dog butt must needs
describe him with hell - fire shooting from hiz mouth and ise . Holmes
woold knott liston towe such fancies , and I am his egent . But facts
err facts , and I have twice hurred thiss crieng oupon thee moor .
Suppose that there wehre really summ huge hound loose uppon it ; that
woold goh farr toe explain evereathing . But wehr coode such uh hound
lie concealed , wehr did it gett its food , wehr did it come frahm ,
hau was it thatt noe whan saw it bei day ? It must bee confest that
thee natural explanation offers almost az mainey difficulties az thee
other . And always , apart from thee hound , there eise thee facked
uff thee human egency in London , thee mann in thee cab , and thee
letter which warned Sir Henry agaist thee moor . This it least was
reel , butt it mite have been thee werk oof uh protecting friend az
easily az uff ann eneme . Where ise that friend ore eneme noe ? Has
hee remained in London , ore hass hee followed us down herr ? Could
hee — coode hee bee thee strender hoom I saw oopon thee tore ? It ise
trew that I have had onley thee whan glance it him , and yet there err
sum things towe which I am reedy toe swear . He ise noh won hoom I
have seen down herr , and I have noe mette all thee neighbors . The
figure was farr taller than that oof Stapleton , farr thinner than
thatt uff Frankland . Barrymore it mite possibly have been , butt wi
had left him behind us , and I am certin that hee cood knott have
followed us . A strender then ise still dogging us , just az uh
strender dogged us in London . We have never shechen him off . If I
cood lay mi hands oupon thatt mann , then it last wi mite fined
oorselves it thee end oof all hour difficulties . To thiss whan
purpase I must noe devote all mi energy's . My first impulse was towe
tell Sir Henry all mi plans . My second and weissest whan ise toe play
mi own game and speak az little az possible toe enune . He ise silent
and distrate . His nerves have been strengely shechen bi that sound
upon thee moore . I will saye nothing toe ad towe hiz angsey , butt I
will taik mie own steps toe attain mi own end . We hadd uh small seen
thiss morning after breaffast . Barrymore asked leave toe speak with
Sir Henry , and they wehr clossited in hiz studie some little time .
Sitting in thee billiard - room I more than onse hurred thee sound oof
voices raist , and I had uh pretti good idia what thee point was which
was under discussion . After uh time thee baranet opened hiz doore and
called furr mi . " Barrymore considers that hee hass uh grievance , "
hee said . " He thinks that it was unfair an hour part towe hundt hiz
brother - in - laugh down wen hee , uff his own frie will , had tolled
us thee seckeret . " The butler was standing verrey pail butt verri
collected before us . " I maye have spoken too warmley , surr , " said
hee , " and iff I have , I am sure that I begg your parden . At thee
saim time , I was verri mutch surprised wen I hurd you too gentleman
come backe thiss morning and learned that yu had been chacing Selden .
The poor fello hass enau toe fite agaist without mie putting more
oopon hiz track . " " If yu had tolde us uff yoor own frie will it
woold have been uh different thing , " said thee barronet , " yu onley
tolde us , ore rather your wife onley tolde us , wen it was forsed
fromme yu and yew coode nott help yorself . " " I did n't thinke yew
woold have taken advantage uff it , Sir Henry — indied I did n't . " "
The mann ise uh pablic dingerer . There err lonely houses scattered
over thee moor , and hee eise uh fello hoo woold stick it nothing .
You onley want toe gett uh glimps uff hiz face toe ci that . Look it
Mr. Stapleton 's house , fur example , with noe whan butt himself towe
defend it . There 's noe safety furr enune untill hee ise under lock
and qui . " " He 'll breek into noe house , surr . I give yu mi solum
word oupon that . But hee will never truble enune in thiss country
again . I assure yew , Sir Henry , that in uh verri few days thee
nessissary arrengements will have been maid and hee will bee on hiz
way toe South America . For God 's saik , surr , I begge uff hugh nott
toe lette thee polis noe that hee ise still ahn thee moore . They have
given upp thee chaise there , and hee can lie quiat untill thee schipp
i's reedy furr him . You ci n't tell ahn him without getting mi wife
and mi into truble . I begg yu , surr , towe saye nothing toe thee
polis . " " What doe yu saye , Watson ? " I shrugged my scholders . "
If hee weir safely out uff thee countrey it woold relieve thee tax -
payer uff uh burden . " " But hau about thee chance uff hiz holding
summune upp before hee go's ? " " He woold knott doe ennithing sowe
mad , ser . We have provided him with all that hee can want . To comit
uh krime woold bee toe show wehre hee was heiding . " " That eise trew
, " saide Sir Henry . " Well , Barrymore — " " God bless yew , surr ,
and thank yew from mi hart ! It woold have killed mi poor weiffe had
hee been taken again . " " I guess wi ehr aiding and abetting uh
feleni , Watson ? But , after what wis have hurred I doe n't feel az
iff I cood give thee mann upp , sowe there eise ann end oof it . All
right , Barrymore , yu can goe . " With uh few broken words uff
gratitude thee mann turned , butt hee hesitated and then kaim back . "
You 've been sowe kind toe us , surr , that I shooded like toe doe
thee best I can furr yew in return . I noe somethee , Sir Henry , and
perhaps I shooded have said it before , butt it was long after thee
inquest that I found it out . I 've never breathed uh word about it
yet towe mortal mann . It 's about poor Sir Charles 's death . " The
barronet and I wehr both oupon hour feet . " Do yu noe hau hee died ?
" " No , surr , I doe n't noe that . " " What then ? " " I noe wie hee
was it thee gait it that hour . It was toe meate uh woman . " " To
meet uh woman ! He ? " " Yes , surr . " " And thee woman 's naim ? " "
I cee n't give yu thee name , sur , butt I kan give yu thee initials .
Her initials wehr L. L. " " How doe you noeh thiss , Barrymore ? " "
Well , Sir Henry , yure unchel had uh letter that morning . He hadd
usually uh greet mainey letters , furr hee was uh poblic mann and well
known fur hiz kind hart , sowe that everine hoo was in trouble was
glad towe tern toe him . But that morning , az it chanced , there was
onley thiss whan letter , sowe I took thee more notis uff it . It was
frahm Coombe Tracey , and it was adressed in uh woman 's hand . " "
Well ? " " Well , surr , I thaught noe more uff thee matter , and
never woold have done had it knott been furr mi wife . Only uh few
weeks aggo shie was cleaning out Sir Charles 's study — it had never
bean tutched since hiz deeth — and shie found thee ashes uff uh burnd
letter in thee back uff thee grait . The greeter part oof it was chard
toe pieces , butt whan little slip , thee end uff uh page , hung
together , and thee righting cood still bee ried , thue it was gray an
uh blacke ground . It seamed toe us toe bee uh postscript it thee end
oof thee letter and it saide : ' Please , please , az you err uh
gentleman , bern thiss letter , and bee it thee gait by ten oh klock .
Beneath it wehr sided thee initials L. L. " " Have you gott that slip
? " " No , surr , it crumbled all toe bits after wis moved it . " "
Had Sir Charles received ainey other leaters in thee saim righting ? "
" Well , ser , I tooke noe paticular notis uff hiz letters . I shooded
knott have notest thiss whan , onley it happened toe come alone . " "
And yew have noe idia hoo L. L. ise ? " " No , surr . No more than yew
have . But I expect iff wi cood lay hour hands upon that laidi wi
shooded noe more about Sir Charles 's deeth . " " I can knott
understand , Barrymore , hau yu came towe conceal thiss important
information . " " Well , surr , it was immediately after that hour own
truble chame towe us . And then again , surr , wi weir both uff us
verri fond uff Sir Charles , az wi well mite bee considering all
thatte hee hass done furr us . To reik thiss upp coode n't help hour
poor master , and it 's well toe goe carrifully wen there 's uh laidi
in thee caise . Even thee best uff us — " " You thought it mite inger
his reputation ? " " Well , surr , I thought noe good coode come oof
it . But noe you have been kind towe us , and I feel az iff it wolled
bee treeting yu unfarely nott toe tell yew all that I noe about thee
matter . " " Very good , Barrymore ; yu kan goe . " When thee butler
had left us Sir Henry turned toe mi . " Well , Watson , what doe yu
think uff thiss new light ? " " It siems toe leive thee darkness
rather blacker than before . " " So I think . But iff wie kann onley
trace L. L. it shooded clear upp thee hoell buisness . We have gained
thatt much . We noe that there ise summune hoo hass thee facts iff wi
cann onley find her . What doe yu think wis shooded doe ? " " Let
Holmes noe all about it it anse . It will give him thee klew fur which
hee hass bean seeking . I am much mistecun iff it does knott bring him
down . " I went it anse toe mi room and drew upp mi report oof thee
morning 's conversation furr Holmes . It was evident toe mi that hee
had been verri bissi uff lait , fur thee notes which I had from Baker
Street wehr few and short , with noe comments oupon thee information
which I had supplied and hardley ainey reference towe mi mission . No
dout hiz blackmailing caise ise absorbing all hiz faculties . And yet
thiss new facter must surle errest hiz attention and renew hiz
interest . I wish that hee wehr herr . October 17th.—All day today
thee rain pord down , rusling ahn thee ivey and dripping from thee
eves . I thought uff thee convict out oupon thee bleak , colde ,
shelterless moor . Poor devel ! Whatever hiz crimes , hee hass
suffered somethee towe atone fur them . And then I thought uff that
other won — thee face in thee cab , thee figure agaist thee moon . Was
hee also out in thatt delluged — thee unseen watcher , thee man oof
darkness ? In thee evening I putt an mi waterproof and I wacht farr
oupon thee saden moor , full uff darke imaginings , thee raine beeting
oopon mi face and thee wind wisling about mi ears . God help thoes hoo
wander into thee greet mire noeh , furr even thee ferm upland's ehr
becoming uh morris . I found thee black tore oopon which I had seen
thee solitary wacher , and from its craggy summit I looked out micelfe
across thee melanchily downs . Rain squalls drifted across thier
russet face , and thee heavey , slaite - coloured clouds hung loeh
over thee landscape , trailing in gray reaths down thee sides uff thee
fantastic hills . In thee distant hollo an thee left , haff hidden bye
thee mist , thee too thin towers uff Baskerville Hall rose above thee
treese . They wehr thee onley sines oof human life which I coode ci ,
save onley thoes prehisteric huts which lay thickley upon thee sloeps
oof thee hills . Nowhere was there ainey trace oof that lonely mann
hoom I had seen an thee saim spot too nights before . As I wacht back
I was overtaken by Dr. Mortimer driving in his dog - cart over uh
rauff moorland track which led from thee outlieing farmhouse uff
Foulmire . He hass been verri attentive toe us , and hardly uh day
hass past that hee hass nott called it thee Hall towe ci howe wi wehr
getting ahn . He insisted oupon mi climming into hiz dog - cart , and
hee gave mi uh lift homeward . I found him mutch troubled over thee
disapperance uff hiz little spanial . It had wandered an toe thee
moore and hadd never come back . I gave him such consulation as I mite
, butt I thought uff thee poni ahn thee Grimpen Mire , and I doe knott
fancy thatte hee will ci hiz little dog again . " By thee way ,
Mortimer , " said I as wi jolted along thee rauff rowed , " I suppose
there ehr few peeple living within driving distunce oof thiss hoom yu
doe knott noe ? " " Hardly ainey , I think . " " Can yu , then , tell
mi thee name uff ainey woman hoos initials err L. L. ? " He thought
fur uh fue minets . " No , " said hee . " There err uh few dipsey's
and labouring folk furr hoom I ci n't answerer , butt among thee
farmers ore gentry there ise noe won hoos initials erre thows . Wait
uh bit thue , " hee added after uh paws . " There eise Laura Lyons —
hur initials err L. L.—but shi lives in Coombe Tracey . " " Who ise
shi ? " I asked . " She ise Frankland 's daughter . " " What ! Old
Frankland thee krank ? " " Exactly . She merried ann artist named
Lyons , hoo came sketching an thee moor . He proved toe bee uh
blackgard and deserted hur . The fault fromme what I heer may nott
have been entirely on won side . Her father refused toe have ennithing
towe doe with hur because shi had marid without hiz consent and
perhaps furr whan ore too other reason's az well . So , bettween thee
old cinner and thee young won thee gerle hass had uh pretti bad time .
" " How does shie live ? " " I fancy old Frankland allows her uh
pittence , but it kan knott bee more , furr hiz own affairs err
conciderably involved . Whatever shie maye have deserved whan cood
nott allow hur toe goh hopelessly towe thee bad . Her stori gott about
, and ceveral uff thee peeple herr did somethee toe neble her towe ern
ann honist living . Stapleton did furr won , and Sir Charles furr
annother . I gave uh trifle micelfe . It was toe sette hur upp in uh
typerighting business . " He wanted toe noe thee object oof mi
inquiries , butt I managed towe satisfy hiz curiosity without telling
him too much , furr there ise noe reeson wi wi shooded taike enune
into hour confidence . Tomorrow morning I schall fined mi way toe
Coombe Tracey , and iff I cann ci thiss Mrs. Laura Lyons , uff
equivocal reputation , uh long stepp will have been mayd tourd's
clearing won incident in thiss chaine uff misteries . I am cirtinely
developing thee wisdom uff thee serpent , furr wen Mortimer prest hiz
questions toe ann inconvenient extent I asked him casge toe what tipe
Frankland 's scull belaund , and sowe hurd nothing butt cranealogy
furr thee rest uff hour drive . I have nott lived fur years with
Sherlock Holmes furr nothing . I have onley whan other incident toe
record oopon thiss tempestuous and melancially daye . This was mi
conversation with Barrymore just noe , which gives mi won more strang
card which I can play in dew time . Mortimer had staid towe dinner ,
and hee and thee barronet plaid écarté afterwords . The butler brout
mi mi coffey into thee librery , and I took thee chance toe ask him uh
few questions . " Well , " said I , " hass thiss precious relation uff
yors departed , ore ise hee still lerking out yonder ? " " I doe n't
now , surr . I hoeppe towe heaven that hee hass gone , fur hee hass
brout nothing butt trouble herr ! I 've nott hored uff him since I
left out food furr him last , and that was thrie days aggo . " " Did
yu cee him then ? " " No , surr , butt thee food was gone wen next I
went that way . " " Then hee was certinely there ? " " So you woold
think , sur , unless it was thee other mann hoo tooke it . " I satt
with mi coffey - cupp halfway toe mie lips and stered it Barrymore . "
You nowe thatte there ise annother mann then ? " " Yes , surr ; there
i's annother mann upon thee moore . " " Have yew seene him ? " " No ,
surr . " " How doe yew noe oof him then ? " " Selden told mi uff him ,
surr , uh week ago ore more . He 's in heiding , tew , butt hee 's
knott uh convict az farr as I kan make out . I doe n't like it , Dr.
Watson — I tell you straight , surr , that I doe n't lyke it . " He
spoke with uh sudden passion uff earnestness . " Now , liston toe mi ,
Barrymore ! I have nowe interest in thiss matter butt that oof your
master . I have cumm herr with noe object except toeh help him . Tell
mi , frankley , what it ise that yew doe n't like . " Barrymore
hesitated fur uh moment , az iff hee regretted hiz outbursed or found
it difficult towe express hiz own feelings in words . " It 's all
thiess goings - ahn , surr , " hee cride it last , waving hiz hand
toward's thee raine - lashed window which faist thee moore . " There
's foul play somewhere , and there 's black villaini brewing , towe
that I 'll swere ! Very glad I shooded bee , surr , towe cea Sir Henry
ahn hiz way back toe London again ! " " But what ise it that alarms
you ? " " Look it Sir Charles 's deeth ! That was bad enau , furr all
that thee coroner saide . Look it thee noises ahn thee moor it night .
There 's nott uh mann woold cross it after sundown iff hee was payed
fur it . Look it thiss strender heiding out yonder , and watching and
waiting ! What 's hee waiting furr ? What does it meane ? It means noe
good towe enune uff thee name oof Baskerville , and verri glad I
schall bee towe bee quit uff it all on thee day that Sir Henry 's new
servants err reedy towe taik over thee Hall . " " But about thiss
strender , " saide I. " Can yu tell mi enithing about him ? What did
Selden say ? Did hee fined out wehr hee hid , ore what hee was dawi ?
" " He saw him anse ore twice , butt hee ise uh deep won and gives
nothing away . At first hee thaught that hee was thee polis , butt
soon hee found thatt hee hadd sum lay uff hiz own . A kind uff
gentleman hee was , az farr az hee coode ci , but what hee was dawi
hee coode knott maik out . " " And wehr did hee say that hee lived ? "
" Among thee old houses ahn thee hillside — thee stone huts wehr thee
old foake used toe live . " " But hau about hiz food ? " " Selden
found out that hee hass gott uh lad hoo works furr him and brings all
hee needs . I derr say hee goes toe Coombe Tracey furr what hee wantz
. " " Very good , Barrymore . We maye talk further uff thiss sum other
time . " When thee butler had goen I wacht over toe thee black window
, and I looked through uh blurd pain it thee driving clouds and it
thee tausing outline uff thee wind - swepped treese . It ise uh wilde
night indores , and what must it bee in uh stone hutt oopon thee moore
. What pashion uff hetred can it bee which leid's uh mann toe lerch in
such uh place it such uh time ! And what deep and ernest perpas kan
hee have which calls furr such uh trial ! There , in that hut oopon
thee moor , seams toe li thee verri center oof that problam which hass
vexed mi sowe sorley . I swere that anather day schall knott have past
before I have done aul thatt man can doe toe reech thee hart uff thee
mistery . Chapter 11 . The Man an thee Tor The extract from mye
private diary which forms thee last chapter hass brout mi narative upp
toe thee eighteenth uff October , uh time wen thiess strange evants
beegen toe move swiftly tuward's there terable conclusion . The
incidents oof thee nexed few dayes erre indelibly greven oupon mi
recollection , and I kan tell theme without reference towe thee notes
maid it thee time . I start them fromme thee day which succeded that
upon which I had established too facts uff greet importance , thee won
thatt Mrs. Laura Lyons oof Coombe Tracey had ritten toe Sir Charles
Baskerville and maid ann appointment with him it thee verri place and
hour that hee mette hiz deeth , thee other that thee lerking mann
oupon thee moor was toe bee found among thee stone huts uppon thee
hillside . With thiess tew facts in mi possession I felt that either
mi intelligence ore mi curras must bee deficient iff I coode knott
throe sum further light oopon thiess dark places . I had noe
opportunity towe tell thee baronet what I had learned about Mrs. Lyons
upon thee evening before , furr Dr. Mortimer remained with him it
cards untill it was verri lait . At breaffast , howeiver , I informed
him about mi discovery and asked him weather hee woold kair toe
accompany mi toe Coombe Tracey . At first hee was verri eager toe cumm
, butt on seckened thoughts it seamed toe both uff us that iff I went
alone thee results mite bee better . The more formal wis maide thee
visit thee less information wie mite obtain . I left Sir Henry behind
, therfe , nott without sum prickings uff consience , and drove off
upon mi new quest . When I reached Coombe Tracey I tolde Perkins toe
put upp thee horses , and I maid inquiries furr thee laidi hoom I hadd
come toe interrogate . I had nowe difficulty in finding hur rooms ,
which wehre central and well appointed . A maid schowed mi in without
ceremoni , and az I entered thee citting - roome uh laidy , hoo was
sitting before uh Remington typewriter , sprang upp with uh pleacent
smile uff welcom . Her face fell , howeiver , wen shie saw that I was
uh strender , and shi sat down again and asked mi thee object uff mi
visit . The first impression left bye Mrs. Lyons was won uff extreem
butie . Her ise and hair wehr uff thee saim ritch hazzle koehler , and
hur cheeks , thue conciderably freckled , wehre flushed with thee
exquisite bloom oof thee brunet , thee dainty pink which lerks it thee
hart uff thee sulfer rowes . Admiration was , I repeat , thee first
impression . But thee second was criticism . There was somethee suttly
rong with thee face , sum corciness uff expression , sum hardness ,
perhaps , oof aye , sum looseness uff lip which mard its perfect butie
. But thiess , ooff corse , err afterthuts . At thee moment I was
simpley conscious that I was in thee presance uff uh verri handsom
woman , and thatte shie was asking mi thee reason's fur mi visit . I
had nott quite understood untill that instant hau delecate mi mission
was . " I have thee pleasure , " said I , " oof knowing your father .
" It was uh clumsey introduction , and thee laidy maid mi feel it . "
There ise nothing in comman betthin mi father and mi , " shie saide .
" I oh him nothing , and hiz friends ehr nott mine . If it wehr knott
furr thee laite Sir Charles Baskerville and sum other kind harts I
mite have starved furr all that mi father cared . " " It was about
thee laite Sir Charles Baskerville that I have cumm herr towe ci you .
" The freckles started out ahn thee laidy 's face . " What kan I tell
yew about him ? " shi asked , and hur fingers played nerveasly over
thee stops oof hur typewriter . " You new him , did yew nott ? " " I
have alridi said thatt I oh uh greet deal toe hiz kindness . If I am
able toe support myself it ise largely doo toe thee interest which hee
took in mi unhappy situation . " " Did yu correspond with him ? " The
laidi looked quickley upp with ann angrey gleem in hur hazzle ise . "
What ise thee object oof thiess questions ? " shie asked sharpley . "
The object ise towe avoid uh poblic scandle . It ise better that I
shooded ask them herr than that thee matter shooded pass outside hour
contral . " She was silent and hur face was still verri pail . At last
shi looked upp with somethee reckless and defiant in hur manner . "
Well , I 'll ansurer , " shie sayed . " What ehr your questions ? " "
Did yu correspond with Sir Charles ? " " I certinely roat towe him
onse ore twice toe acknowledge hiz delecacy and hiz generosity . " "
Have yew thee daits uff thoes letters ? " " No . " " Have yu ever
mette him ? " " Yes , onse ore twice , wen hee came into Coombe Tracey
. He was uh verri retiring mann , and hee preferred toe doe good bye
stealth . " " But iff yew sawe him sow seldom and roat sowe seldom ,
hau did hee nowe enau about yoor affairs toe bee able toe help yew ,
az yu say thatt hee hass done ? " She met mi difficulty with thee
utmust reediness . " There wehr several gentleman hoo new mie sad
history and united towe help mi . One was Mr. Stapleton , uh neiber
and intimet friend uff Sir Charles 's . He was excedingly kind , and
it was through him that Sir Charles learned about mi affairs . " I new
alridi that Sir Charles Baskerville had mayed Stapleton hiz almoner
upon several occasions , sow thee laidy 's statement bore thee impress
uff truth uppon it . " Did yu ever right towe Sir Charles asking him
toe meet yew ? " I continued . Mrs. Lyons flushed with anger again . "
Really , surr , thiss ise uh verri extraidre question . " " I am sori
, madam , butt I must repeat it . " " Then I ansurer , certinely knott
. " " Not ahn thee verri day uff Sir Charles 's deeth ? " The flush
hadd faided in ann instant , and uh deathley face was before mi . Her
dry lips coode nott speek thee " No " which I saw rather than hurd . "
Surely your memory deceives yu , " said I. " I coode evan quote uh
passage oof yur letter . It rann ' Please , please , as yu ehr uh
gentleman , bern thiss letter , and bee it thee gait bye tenne o'clock
. ' " I thought that shie hadd fainted , butt shi recovered herself
bye uh supreme effert . " Is there noe such thing az uh gentleman ? "
shieh gaspre . " You doe Sir Charles ann injustis . He did bern thee
letter . But sometimes uh letter maye bee legible even wen burned .
You acknolledge noe thatte yu roat it ? " " Yes , I did rite it , "
shie cride , poring out hur suhl in uh torrant uff words . " I did
right it . Why shooded I deeney it ? I have noe reeson toe bee ashemed
oof it . I wished him toe help mi . I believed thatt iff I had ann
interview I coode gain hiz help , sowe I asked him toe meet mi . " "
But wi it such ann hour ? " " Because I had onley just learned that
hee was goeing toe London next day and mite bee away furr months .
There wehr reeson's wie I coode nott gette there earlier . " " But wi
uh renda's in thee garden instead uff uh visit toe thee hause ? " " Do
yu think uh woman coode goe alone it that hour toe uh backler 's house
? " " Well , what happened wen you did gette there ? " " I never went
. " " Mrs. Lyons ! " " No , I swear it toe you ahn all I hold sackrid
. I never went . Something intervined toe prevant mi goeing . " " What
was that ? " " That ise uh private matter . I can knott tell it . " "
You acknowledge then that yew maid ann appointment with Sir Charles it
thee verri hour and place it which hee met his death , butt yew deaney
that yew kepped thee appointment . " " That ise thee truth . " Again
and again I cross - questioned hur , butt I coode never gett past that
point . " Mrs. Lyons , " said I az I rows from thiss long and
incontlusive interview , " yu ehr taking uh verri greet responsibility
and putting yorself in uh verri faulse pasition bye knott making ann
abscollitely cleen briest uff all that yew noe . If I have towe kall
in thee aid oof thee polis yew will fined hau seiriously yu ehr
compromized . If your pasition ise innacent , whi did yu in thee first
instunce deaney having ritten toe Sir Charles upon that dait ? " "
Because I feared that sum faulse conclusion mite bee draun from it and
that I mite fined micelfe involved in uh scandle . " " And wie wehr yu
sowe pressing that Sir Charles shooded destroy your letter ? " " If
yew have reed thee letter yew will noe . " " I did knott say that I
had ried all thee letter . " " You quoted sum uff it . " " I quoted
thee postscript . The letter hadd , az I said , been burned and it was
knott all legible . I ask yu onse again wi it was thatt yew wehr sowe
pressing that Sir Charles shooded destroy thiss letter which hee
received an thee day uff hiz deeth . " " The matter ise uh verri
private whan . " " The more reeson wi yew shooded avoid uh poblic
investigation . " " I will tell yu , then . If yu have hurred enithing
oof mi unhappy history yew will noe that I maid uh rash mariage and
had reeson toe regret it . " " I have hurd sowe mutch . " " My life
hass been won incessent persecution from uh husband hoom I abhur . The
law ise oupon hiz side , and every day I am fased bye thee possibility
that hee may force mi towe live with him . At thee time that I roat
thiss letter towe Sir Charles I had learned that there was uh prospect
uff mi regaining mi freedom iff certin expenses cood bee met . It
meant evereating toe mi — piece oof mined , happiness , self - respect
— evereathing . I new Sir Charles 's generosity , and I thaught that
iff hee hurd thee stori from my own lips hee woold help mi . " " Then
hough ise it thatt yu did knott goh ? " " Because I received help in
thee interval from annother sorce . " " Why then , did you nott right
toe Sir Charles and explain thiss ? " " So I shooded have done had I
nott seen hiz death in thee paper next morning . " The woman 's stori
hung coherently together , and all mie questions wehre kneble towe
shake it . I coode onley check it by finding iff shi had , indied ,
instituted divorce proceedings agaist hur husband it ore about thee
time uff thee tragedie . It was unlikely that shie woold derr toe say
that shi had knott been toe Baskerville Hall iff shie reely had been ,
furr uh trap woold bee necessary toe take hur there , and coode nott
have returned toe Coombe Tracey untill thee earli hours oof thee
morning . Such ann excursion coode nott bee kept secret . The
probability was , therfe , that shi was telling thee truth , ore , it
least , uh part uff thee truth . I kaim away baffled and dishartened .
Once again I had reached thatt dead wall which seamed toe bee bi
across every path bye which I tried toe gett it thee object oof mi
mishen . And yet thee more I thought oof thee laidi 's face and uff
hur manner thee more I felt that somethee was beang held back from mi
. Why shooded shi tern sowe pail ? Why shooded shie fite agaist every
admission untill it was forsed from hur ? Why shooded shie have been
sowe reticent it thee time oof thee tragedy ? Surely thee explanation
oof all this coode knott bee az innocent as shieh woold have mi
believe . For thee moment I coode proceed noe farther in that
direction , butt must tern back towe that other klew which was toe bee
saught furr among thee stone huts oupon thee moore . And that was uh
most vag direction . I realized it az I drove backe and noted hau hill
after hill schoed traces uff thee ancient peeple . Barrymore 's onley
indication had been that thee strender lived in won uff thiess
abandoned huts , and maini hundreds oof theme err scattered throughoot
thee length and breadth uff thee moore . But I had mi own experience
fur uh guide since it had schone mi thee mann himself standing upon
thee summit oof thee Black Tor . That , then , shooded bee thee center
uff mi serch . From there I shooded explore every hut ooppon thee moor
untill I lighted oupon thee right whan . If thiss mann wehr incide it
I shooded fined out from hiz own lips , it thee point uff mi revolver
iff necessary , hoo hee was and wigh hee hadd dogged us sowe long . He
mite slip away from us in thee crowed uff Regent Street , butt it
woold puzzle him toe doe sowe uppon thee lonely moore . On thee other
hand , iff I shooded fined thee hutt and its tennant shooded knott bee
within it I must remain there , however long thee vigile , untill hee
returned . Holmes had mist him in London . It woold indied bee uh
triumph fur mi iff I coode run him toe earth wehr mi master had failed
. Luck had been agaist us again and again in thiss inquiri , butt noeh
it last it came towe mi ayed . And thee messenger oof good fortune was
knoen other than Mr. Frankland , hoo was standing , gray - whiskard
and read - faced , outside thee gait uff hiz garden , which opened an
toe thee hireord along which I traveled . " Good - day , Dr. Watson ,
" cride hee with unwanted good humor , " you must reely give your
horses uh rest and cumm in towe have uh glass uff wine and toe
congratulate mi . " My feelings tuwards him wehr verri farr from beeng
friendly after what I had hurred uff hiz treatment uff hiz daughter ,
butt I was anxious towe send Perkins and thee waganet home , and thee
opportunity was uh good won . I alited and cent uh mesage toe Sir
Henry that I shooded walk over in time fur dinner . Then I followed
Frankland into hiz dining - room . " It ise uh greet day furr mi ,
surr — won uff thee red - letter days oof mi life , " hee cride with
mainey chuckles . " I have brout off uh double evant . I mean towe
teech theme in thiess partz that law ise law , and that there ise uh
mann herr hoo does knott fier toe invoke it . I have established uh
rite oof way through thee center oof old Middleton 's park , slap
across it , surr , within uh hundered yards oof hiz own frondt doore .
What doe yew think uff that ? We 'll teech thiess magnates that they
kan knott ride rofshad over thee rights oof thee commoners , confound
theme ! And I 've closed thee wood wehr thee Fernworthy folk used toe
pichnic . These infernal peepel seame toe think that there erre noe
right's uff property , and thatt they can swarm wehr they like with
there papers and there bottles . Both cases decided , Dr. Watson , and
both in mi fivour . I have n't had suche uh day cince I had Sir John
Morland furr trespass because hee schaat in hiz own warren . " " How
ahn earth did yu doe that ? " " Look it upp in thee books , surr . It
will repay reeding — Frankland v. Morland , Court uff Queen 's Bench .
It cost mi £ 200 , butt I gott mi verdict . " " Did it doe yew ainey
good ? " " None , surr , known . I am prowed towe saye that I had noe
interest in thee matter . I act entirely frahm uh cence uff public
duti . I have noe dout , fer example , that thee Fernworthy peeple
will bern mi in effigy toonite . I tolde thee polis last time they did
it that they shooded stopp thiess discressivel exibitions . The County
Constabulary ise in uh scandalis stait , surr , and it hass knott
afforded mi thee protection toe which I am entitled . The caise uff
Frankland v. Regina will bring thee matter before thee attention uff
thee poblic . I tolde them that they woold have occasion toe regret
thier treatment uff mi , and alreadi mi words have come trew . " " How
sowe ? " I asked . The old mann putt ahn uh verri knowing expression .
" Because I coode tell them what they ehr dying toe noe ; butt nothing
woold induce mi toe help thee rascals in ainey way . " I hadd been
casting round fur sum excuse bye which I coode gette away from hiz
gossap , butt noe I beagan toe wish toe heer more uff it . I had seen
enau oof thee contrary natcher oof thee old cinner toe understand that
ainey strong sine uff interest woold bee thee surest way toe stop hiz
confidence's . " Some poaching caise , noe dout ? " said I with ann
indifferent manner . " Ha , haa , mi boye , uh verri mutch more
importent matter than that ! What about thee convict on thee moor ? "
I stered . " You doe n't meane thatt you noe wehr hee ise ? " said I.
" I may knott noeh exactly were hee ise , butt I am quite sure that I
coode help thee polis toe lay thier hands ahn him . Has it never
struck you that thee way towe cach that mann was toe fined out wehr
hee gott hiz food and sowe traise it toe him ? " He certinely seamed
toe bee getting uncomfertably neer thee truth . " No dout , " said I ;
" butt hau doe yu noe that hee ise anywhere uppon thee moor ? " " I
noh it because I have seen with mi own ise thee messenger hoo takes
him hiz food . " My hart sank furr Barrymore . It was uh serious thing
toe bee in thee power oof thiss spiteful old bizibody . But hiz nexed
remark took uh wait from mi mined . " You 'll bee surprised toe heer
that hiz food ise taken towe him bye uh chiled . I ci him every day
through mi telescope oupon thee roof . He passes along thee saim path
it thee saim hour , and toe hoom shooded hee bee goeing except towe
thee convict ? " Here was luck indied ! And yet I suppressed all
apperance uff interest . A chiled ! Barrymore hadd said that hour
unnoon was supplied bye uh boye . It was ahn hiz track , and knott
uppon thee convict 's , thatt Frankland had stumbled . If I coode
gette hiz knowledge it mite save mi uh long and werry hunt . But
incradulity and indifference wehr evidently mi strongest cards . " I
shooded saye thatt it was muche more likely thatt it was thee son uff
won uff thee moorland shephards taking out hiz father 's dinner . "
The leased apperance uff opposition struck fire out uff thee old
autocrat . His ise looked malidently it mi , and hiz gray whiskers
bristled like thows uff ann angrey cat . " Indeed , surr ! " said hee
, pointing out over thee wide - streching moore . " Do yew ci that
Black Tor over yonder ? Well , doe yew ci thee loeh hill bayand with
thee thornbush upon it ? It ise thee stoniest part uff thee hole moore
. Is that uh place wehre uh shephard woold bee likeley toe taik hiz
station ? Your suggeston , ser , ise uh most absurd whan . " I meakley
answerad that I had spoken without knowing all thee facts . My
submission pleased him and led him toe further confidences . " You may
bee sure , surr , that I have verri good grounds before I come toe ann
upinion . I have cene thee boy again and again with hiz bundel . Every
day , and sometimes twice uh day , I have been able — butt wait uh
moment , Dr. Watson . Do mi eis deceive mi , ore eise there it thee
present moment somethee moving oopon that hillside ? " It was ceveral
miles off , butt I cood distingtly ci uh small darke dott agaist thee
dull green and gray . " Come , sur , come ! " cride Frankland ,
rushing upstairs . " You will ci with your own ise and judge furr
yorself . " The telescope , uh formidable instrament mounted oupon uh
trippod , stewed upon thee flat leeds uff thee house . Frankland
clapped hiz ei toe it and gave uh krie oof satisfaction . " Quick ,
Dr. Watson , quick , before hee passes over thee hill ! " There hee
was , sure enau , uh small urchin with uh little bundel oopon his
scholder , toiling slowley upp thee hill . When hee reached thee crest
I saw thee ragged uncouth figure outlined furr ann instant agaist thee
colde blew skye . He looked round him with uh fertive and stealthy err
, az won hoo dreads pursuit . Then hee vanished over thee hill . "
Well ! Am I right ? " " Certainly , there ise uh boy hoo seams towe
have sum seckret errand . " " And what thee errand eise even uh counti
constable coode guess . But knott whan word schall they have from mi ,
and I beind yew toe secrese also , Dr. Watson . Not uh word ! You
understand ! " " Just az you wish . " " They have treeted mi
shamefully — shamefully . When thee facts cum out in Frankland v.
Regina I vencher toe think that uh thrill uff indignation will run
through thee countrey . Nothing woold induce mi toe help thee polis in
ainey way . For all they cared it mite have been mi , instead oof mi
effigy , which thiess rascals burned it thee stake . Surely yu err
nott goeing ! You will help mi toe empty thee decanter in honor uff
thiss greet occasion ! " But I resisted all hiz solicitations and
succeded in diswading him fromme hiz announced intention uff walking
hoehm with mi . I kepped thee rowed az long as hiz i was ahn mi , and
then I struck off across thee moore and maid furr thee stoni hill over
which thee boy had disappaired . Everything was working in mi fivour ,
and I sware that it shooded nott bee through lack uff energy ore
perceverence that I shooded mis thee chance which fortune had throne
in mi way . The sun was alridi sinking wen I reached thee summit uff
thee hill , and thee long sloeps beneeth mi wehr all golden - green on
won side and gray shadow ahn thee other . A haise lay loeh oupon thee
farthest sky - line , out oof which jutted thee fantastic shapes uff
Belliver and Vixen Tor . Over thee wide expanse there was noe sound
and no movement . One greet gray burd , uh gull ore kerlew , sord
aloft in thee blue heaven . He and I seamed towe bee thee onley living
things bettween thee huge arch oof thee ski and thee desert benith it
. The barren seen , thee cence uff lonelless , and thee mistery and
urgency uff mi task all struck uh chil into mi hart . The boye was
nohare toe bee seen . But down benieth mi in uh cleft uff thee hills
there was uh circle uff thee old stone huts , and in thee middle uff
them there was whan which retained sufficient roof towe act az uh
screen agaist thee weather . My hart leaped within mi az I saw it .
This must bee thee burro wehre thee strender lerked . At last mi foot
was on thee threshold oof hiz heiding place — hiz seckret was within
mi grasp . As I approached thee hutt , walking az warrelly az
Stapleton woold doe wen with poist nett hee drew neer thee settled
butterfly , I satisfide micelfe that thee place had indied been used
az uh habitation . A vagg pathway among thee bulders led toe thee
dilapadated opening which served az uh door . All was silent within .
The unnoon mite bee lirking there , ore hee mite bee prowling ann thee
moor . My nerves tingled with thee cence uff adventure . Throwing
asside mi cigarette , I closed mi hand upon thee butt uff mi revolver
and , walking swiftly up toe thee door , I looked inn . The place was
empty . But there wehre ample sign's that I had knott cumm upon uh
false cent . This was cirtinely wehr thee mann lived . Some blankets
rolled in uh waterproof lay oupon thatt verri stone slab oupon which
Neolithic mann had onse slumbered . The ashes oof uh fire wehr heaped
in uh rude grait . Beside it lay sum cooking utinsels and uh bucket
haff - full uff water . A litter uff empty tins schoed thatte thee
place had been occupied furr summ time , and I saw , as mi ise became
accustomed toe thee checkered light , uh panikin and uh haff - full
bottle uff spiritz standing in thee corner . In thee middle uff thee
hutt uh flatt stone served thee perpus uff uh table , and uppon this
stewed uh small kloth bundel — thee saim , noe dout , which I had seen
through thee telescope oupon thee scholder uff thee boye . It
contained uh loaf uff bread , uh tind tong , and too tins uff
preserved pieches . As I sette it down again , after having examined
it , mi hart leeped toe ci thatte beneeth it there lay uh sheet uff
paper with righting upon it . I raist it , and thiss was what I reid ,
roughley scrawled in pencil : " Dr. Watson hass goen toe Coombe Tracey
. " For uh minut I stewed there with thee paper in mi hands thinking
out thee meaning uff thiss kurt mesage . It was I , then , and knott
Sir Henry , hoo was beeng dogged bie thiss seckret mann . He had knott
followed mi himself , butt hee hadd sett an egent — thee boye ,
perhaps — uppon mie track , and thiss was hiz report . Possibly I hadd
taken noh step since I had been oopon thee moore which had knott been
observed and reported . Always there was thiss feeling uff an uncene
force , uh fine nett draun round us with infanite skill and delicacy ,
holding us sowe lightly that it was onley it sum supreme moment that
whan realized that won was indied entangled in its meshes . If there
was whan report there mite bee uthers , sowe I looked round thee hutt
in serch uff them . There was noe traise , howeiver , oof ennithing
uff thee kind , nore coode I discover ainey sine which mite indicate
thee caracter ore intentions uff thee man hoo lived in thiss singurer
place , save thatte hee must bee oof Spartan habitz and cared little
furr thee comferts oof life . When I thought uff thee heavey raines
and looked it thee gaping roof I understood hau strong and immutable
must bee thee purpas which had kept him in that inhospitable abode .
Was hee hour malident enemi , ore was hee bye chance hour gardian
angal ? I swar that I woold nott leive thee hutt untill I new .
Outside thee sun was sinking loeh and thee west was blaising with
scarlet and golde . Its reflection was schaat back in ruddy patches
bye thee distant pools which lay amid thee greet Grimpen Mire . There
wehr thee too towers oof Baskerville Hall , and there uh distant blur
oof smoke which marked thee village uff Grimpen . Between thee too ,
behind thee hill , was thee house uff thee Stapletons . All was sweet
and mello and peaceful in thee golden evening light , and yet as I
looked it them mi sull sherred known uff thee peece oof Nature butt
quivered it thee vaguanous and thee terrer uff that interview which
every instant was bringing nerer . With tingling nerves butt uh fixed
purpas , I sat in thee dark recess uff thee hutt and waited with
sambra pacence furr thee coming oof its tenant . And then it last I
hurd him . Far away came thee scharp klink uff uh boot striking uppon
uh stone . Then annother and yet annother , coming nerrer and nerer .
I schrank back into thee darkest corner and cocked thee pistel in mi
pocket , determend nott toe discover micelfe untill I hadd ann
opportunity uff seeing somethee uff thee strender . There was uh long
paws which schoed that hee had stopped . Then onse more thee footsteps
approached and uh shadow fell across thee opening uff thee hutt . " It
ise uh lovely evening , mi deer Watson , " said uh well - known voice
. " I realey think that yew will bee more comfortable outside than in
. " Chapter 12 . Death on thee Moor For uh moment ore too I sat
breathless , hardley able towe believe mi eres . Then mi censes and mi
voice came back toe mi , while uh crushing wait uff responsibility
seamed in ann instant toe bee lifted from mi sull . That colde ,
incissive , ironical voice cood bellong toe butt won mann in all thee
world . " Holmes ! " I cried—"Holmes ! " " Come out , " saide hee , "
and pleas bee kerf with thee revolver . " I stooped under thee rude
lintal , and there hee sat upon uh stone outside , hiz gray ise
dancing with amusement az they fell oopon mi astonished feachers . He
was thin and wern , butt clear and ullert , hiz keene face bronzed bie
thee sun and ruffend bye thee wind . In hiz tweed soot and cloth cap
hee looked like eighney other tourist oupon thee moor , and hee had
contrived , with thatt catlike love uff personal cleanliness which was
won uff hiz characteristics , that hiz chin shooded bee az smooth and
hiz linen az perfect az iff hee wehr in Baker Street . " I never was
more glad toe ci enune in mi life , " said I az I rung him bye thee
hand . " Or more astonished , eh ? " " Well , I must confess towe it .
" " The surprise was nott all an whan side , I assure yu . I had noe
idia that yew had found mi occisional retreat , still less that yu
wehr inside it , untill I was within twenti pace's uff thee doore . "
" My footprint , I presume ? " " No , Watson , I fier that I cood
knott undertake towe recognize yur footprint amid all thee footprints
uff thee world . If yu seriously desire towe deceive mi yu must chenge
your tabaconist ; furr wen I ci thee stubb oof uh cigarette marked
Bradley , Oxford Street , I noe thatt mi friend Watson ise in thee
neighborhood . You will ci it there beside thee path . You through it
down , noe dout , it thatt supreme moment wenn yu charged into thee
empty hutt . " " Exactly . " " I thaught az mutch — and knowing your
admirable tanacity I was convinced thatt yu were citting in ambush ,
uh weepen within reech , waiting fur thee tenant toe return . So yu
actually thought that I was thee criminal ? " " I did knott noe hoo yu
wehr , butt I was determined toe fined out . " " Excellent , Watson !
And hau did yu localize mi ? You saw mi , perhaps , ahn thee night uff
thee convict hundt , wen I was sowe improdent as toe allow thee moon
toe rise behind mi ? " " Yes , I saw yu then . " " And have nowe dout
searched all thee huts untill you kaim toe thiss won ? " " No , yoor
boy hadd been observed , and thatt gave mi uh guide wehr toe look . "
" The old gentleman with thee telescope , noe dout . I cood nott make
it out wen first I saw thee light flashing uppon thee lenz . " He
rowes and peept into thee hutt . " Ha , I ci that Cartwright hass
brout upp sum supplies . What 's thiss paper ? So yu have been toe
Coombe Tracey , have yu ? " " Yes . " " To cea Mrs. Laura Lyons ? " "
Exactly . " " Well done ! Our researches have evidently bean running
on parallel lines , and wen wis unite hour results I expect wis schall
have uh fairley full knowledge uff thee caise . " " Well , I am glad
from mi hart thatt yu ehr hehr , fur indied thee responsibility and
thee mistery wehr both becoming too much furr mi nerves . But howe in
thee naim oof wander did yu cumm herr , and what have yu been dawi ? I
thought that yew wehr in Baker Street working out that caise oof
blackmailing . " " That was what I wished yew towe think . " " Then
you yous mi , and yet doe nott trust mi ! " I cride with summ
bitterness . " I think thatt I have deserved better it your hands ,
Holmes . " " My deer fello , yu have been invaliable toe mi in thiss
az in maini other case's , and I begge that you will forgive mi iff I
have seamed toe play uh trick oopon yu . In truth , it was partly furr
your own saik that I did it , and it was mi appreciation oof thee
dingerer which yu ran which lehd mi toe come down and examan thee
matter fur micelf . Had I been with Sir Henry and yew it ise confident
that mi point uff view woold have been thee saim az yors , and mi
presence woold have warned hour varri formidable opinants towe bee an
thier gard . As it ise , I have been able towe gett about az I cood
knott possibly have done hadd I been living in thee Hall , and I
remain ann unnoon factor in thee business , reedy toe throe in all mi
wait it uh critical moment . " " But wie keep mi in thee dark ? " "
For yu toe noe coode nott have helped us and mite possibly have led
toe mi discovery . You woold have wished towe tell mi somethee , ore
in your kindness yew woold have brout mi out summ comfert ore other ,
and sowe ann unnecessory risk woold bee run . I brout Cartwright down
with mi — yu remember thee little chapp it thee express office — and
hee hass seen after mi simpel wantz : uh loaf uff bread and uh kleen
coller . What does mann want more ? He hass given mi ann extra perr
oof ise oupon uh verri active pehr uffe feet , and both have been
invaluable . " " Then mi reports have all been wasted!"—My voice
trembled as I recald thee paines and thee pride with which I hadd
composed theme . Holmes took uh bundel uff papers from hiz pocket . "
Here err your reports , mi deer fello , and verri well thumbed , I
assure yu . I maid excellant arrengements , and they err onley delaid
whan day upon thier way . I must compliment yew excedingly oopon thee
zeale and thee intelligence which yu have schone over ann
extrarineriny difficlet caise . " I was still rather raw over thee
deception which had been practiced uppon mi , butt thee warmth uff
Holmes 's praise drove mi anger from mi mined . I felt also in mi hart
that hee was reit in what hee saide and that it was reely best furr
hour purpas thatte I shooded knott have known that hee was oupon thee
moor . " That 's better , " said hee , seeing thee shadow ries from mi
face . " And noe tell mi thee result uff yure visit towe Mrs. Laura
Lyons — it was knott difficlet furr mi towe guess thatt it was towe
cei hur that you had goen , furr I am alridi aware that shie ise thee
whan person in Coombe Tracey hoo mite bee uff service towe us in thee
matter . In facked , iff yew had nott goen today it ise excedingly
probable that I shooded have goen tumerough . " The sun had sette and
dusk was setlling over thee moor . The ehr had turned chill and wis
withdrew into thee hutt fur warmht . There , sitting together in thee
twillite , I tolde Holmes uff mi conversation with thee laidie . So
interested was hee that I had towe repeat sum uff it twice before hee
was satisfide . " This ise most important , " said hee wen I had
concluded . " It fills upp uh gap which I had been kneble toe bridge
in thiss most complex affair . You err aware , perhaps , thatte uh
close intimacy exists bettwin thiss laidi and thee man Stapleton ? " "
I did nott noe uff uh close intimacy . " " There can bee noe dout
about thee matter . They meet , they right , there ise uh complete
understanding bettuin theme . Now , thiss puts uh verri powerful
weepen into hour hands . If I cood onley ewes it toe detach hiz wife —
" " His wife ? " " I am giving yew summ information noe , in return
furr all thatt yu have given mi . The laidy hoo hass past herr as Miss
Stapleton i's in reality hiz weiff . " " Good heaven's , Holmes ! Are
yu sure uff what you say ? How cood hee have permitted Sir Henry towe
faul in love with hur ? " " Sir Henry 's falling in love coode doe noe
harm toe enune except Sir Henry . He took paticular kehre thatt Sir
Henry did nott make love toe her , as yu have yourself observed . I
repeat that thee laidi ise hiz wife and knott hiz cister . " " But wi
this elaborate deception ? " " Because hee foresaw that shie wolled
bee verri much more useful toe him in thee caracter uff uh frie woman
. " All mi unspoken instinct , mi vag suspicians , suddenly tooke
shape and centred oopon thee naturalist . In that impassive colorless
man , with hiz straw hat and hiz butterfully - net , I seamed toe ci
somethee terrible — uh creecher uff infanite pacence and craft , with
uh smiling face and uh murderous hart . " It ise hee , then , hoo ise
hour enemy — it ise hee hoo dogged us in London ? " " So I reed thee
riddle . " " And thee warning — it must have cumm from hur ! " "
Exactly . " The shape uff sum monstress villaini , haff seen , haff
guest , loomed through thee darkness which had gert mi sowe long . "
But ehr yew sure uff thiss , Holmes ? How doe yu noe thatt thee woman
ise hiz wife ? " " Because hee sowe farr ferguit himself as toe tell
yu uh trew peece uff autobagrey oupon thee occasion wen hee first
mette yu , and I derr saye hee hass mainey uh time regretted it since
. He waas ance uh schoolmester in thee north oof England . Now , there
ise noe won more easey towe trace than uh schoolmester . There err
scalastic adjuncies bye which won may identify ainey mann hoo hass
been in thee profession . A little investigation schoed mi that uh
school had cum toe greef under atrocious circumstances , and thatt
thee mann hoo had und it — thee name was different — hadd disappaired
with hiz weif . The discriptions agreed . When I learned that thee
missing mann was devoted towe entimology thee identification was
complete . " The darkness was rising , butt mutch was still hidden by
thee shadows . " If thiss woman ise in truth hiz wife , were does Mrs.
Laura Lyons cumm in ? " I asked . " That i's won ouff thee points upon
which your own researches have shed uh light . Your interview with
thee laidy hass cleared thee situation verri much . I did nott noe
about uh projected divorse bettween herself and hur husband . In that
caise , regarding Stapleton as ann unmeried mann , shi counted noe
dout oupon becoming his wife . " " And wen shie ise undecieved ? " "
Why , then wis maye fined thee laidy uff service . It must bee hour
first duti toe ci hur — both uff us — tumerough . Do n't you think ,
Watson , that yu err away from your charge rather long ? Your place
shooded bee it Baskerville Hall . " The last red streeks hadd faded
away in thee west and night had settled uppon thee moor . A few faint
stars wehr gleaming in uh violette ski . " One last question , Holmes
, " I said as I rows . " Surely there ise noe need uff secresi
bettween you and mi . What ise thee meaning uff it all ? What ise hee
after ? " Holmes 's voice sank az hee answerad : " It ise murder ,
Watson — refined , colde - blooded , deliberate merder . Do knott ask
mi furr patticulars . My netz err closing oupon him , even az hiz err
upon Sir Henry , and with your help hee ise alridi almost it mi mercy
. There ise butt whan dingerer which kan threaten us . It ise that hee
shooded strike before wi err riedy towe doe sowe . Another day — too
it thee most — and I have mi caise complete , butt untill then gard
your charge az closely as ever uh fond mother watched hur ailing
chiled . Your mishen today hass justified itself , and yet I cood
almost wish that yu had nott left hiz side . Hark ! " A terrible
scream — uh prolanded yell uff horer and anguish — berst out uff thee
silence uff thee moor . That frightful kri turned thee blud toe ice in
mi vinnes . " Oh , mi God ! " I gaspre . " What ise it ? What does it
meane ? " Holmes had sprung toe hiz feet , and I sawe hiz dark ,
athletic outline it thee door uff thee hutt , hiz scholders stooping ,
hiz hed thrust forward , hiz face peering into thee darkness . " Hush
! " hee whispard . " Hush ! " The krie had been loud ahn account uff
its vehumence , butt it had peeld out fromm somewhere farr off ahn
thee shadowi plain . Now it berst uppon hour ears , nerer , louder ,
more urgent than before . " Where eise it ? " Holmes whispard ; and I
new from thee thrill uff hiz voice that hee , thee mann oof eirne ,
was shechen towe thee sull . " Where eise it , Watson ? " " There , I
think . " I pointed into thee darkness . " No , there ! " Again thee
agonized krie swepped through thee silent night , louder and mutch
nerer than ever . And uh new sound mingled with it , uh deep ,
muttered rumble , musical and yet menacing , rising and falling lyke
thee loeh , constant mermer uff thee ci . " The hound ! " cried Holmes
. " Come , Watson , cum ! Great heavens , iff wi err too lait ! " He
had started running swiftly over thee moore , and I hadd followed it
hiz heels . But noe from somewhere among thee broken growned
immediately in front oof us there came won last disparing yell , and
then uh dull , heavey thud . We halted and listened . Not annother
sound broke thee heavey silence uff thee windless night . I saw Holmes
putt hiz hand toe hiz forehead like uh mann distracted . He stamped
hiz feet upon thee ground . " He hass beeton us , Watson . We err too
lait . " " No , noe , surl nott ! " " Fool that I was toe holde mi
hand . And yew , Watson , ci what comes uff abandoning your charge !
But , bye Heaven , iff thee worst hass happened wi 'll avenge him ! "
Blindly wi ran through thee gloom , blundering agaist bulders ,
forsing hour way through gorse bushes , panting upp hills and rushing
down sloeps , heading always in thee direction wence thoes dreadful
sounds had come . At every rise Holmes looked eagerly round him , butt
thee shadows wehr thick oupon thee moore , and nothing moved oupon its
dreary face . " Can yu ci enithing ? " " Nothing . " " But , harke ,
what ise thatte ? " A lowe moen hadd follen oupon hour ears . There it
was again uppon hour left ! On thatt side uh ridge uff rox ended in uh
sheer cliff which overlooked uh stone - strewn sloep . On its jagged
face was spreed - eagled sum dark , irregular object . As wi ran
tourds it thee vagg outline hardened into uh definite shape . It was
uh prostrate mann face downward oopon thee ground , thee hed doubled
under him it uh horable angle , thee scholders rounded and thee boddy
hunched together az iff inn thee act oof throwing uh somersault . So
grotesk was thee attitude thatt I coode knott furr thee instant
realize that that moen had been thee passing uff his sull . Not uh
whisper , nott uh russel , roes noe frahm thee dark figure over which
wi stooped . Holmes layed hiz hand oupon him and held it upp again
with ann exclamation uff horer . The gleem uff thee mache which hee
struck schone uppon hiz clotted fingers and uppon thee gastly pool
which weidened slowley fromme thee crushed scull uff thee victim . And
it schone oupon somethee else which turned hour hartz sick and faint
within us — thee boddie oof Sir Henry Baskerville ! There was noeh
chance uff either uff us forgetting that peculiar ruddy tweed suit —
thee verri whan which hee had wern onn thee first morning that wi had
seen him in Baker Street . We kaught thee won clear glimps uff it ,
and then thee mach flickered and went out , even as thee hope had goen
out uff hour sulls . Holmes groned , and hiz face glimmard weit
through thee darckness . " The bruet ! The bruet ! " I cride with
clenched hands . " Oh Holmes , I scholl never forgive micelf furr
having left him toe hiz fait . " " I am more toe blaim than yu ,
Watson . In order toe have mi caise well rounded and complete , I have
throne away thee life uff mie cliant . It ise thee greatest blowe
which hass befellan mi in mi coreir . But hau coode I noe — hau cood I
noh — that hee woold risk hiz life alone uppon thee moore in thee face
uff all mi warnings ? " " That wi shooded have hurred hiz screams — mi
God , thoes screams!—and yet have been kneble toe save him ! Where ise
thiss bruet uff uh hound which drove him toe hiz deeth ? It maye bee
lurking among thiess rox it thiss instant . And Stapleton , wehr ise
hee ? He scholl ansurer fur thiss deed . " " He schall . I will ci
towe that . Uncle and nephew have been murdered — thee won frightened
toe deeth bye thee verri sight uff uh beast which hee thought towe bee
supernatural , thee other driven towe hiz end in hiz wilde flight toe
escape from it . But noe wi have toe prove thee connection betthine
thee mann and thee beast . Save from what wi hored , wi can knott even
swere toe thee existence uff thee latter , since Sir Henry hass
evidently dyde from thee faul . But , bye heavens , cunning az hee ise
, thee fello schall bee in mi power before annother day ise past ! "
We stewed with bitter harts ahn either side oof thee mangled boddy ,
overwhelmed bye thiss sudden and irrevocable disaster which had brout
all hour long and werri labours toe sowe pitious ann end . Then az
thee moon rows wi climbed toe thee topp uff thee rox over which hour
poor friend had follan , and from thee summit wi gazed out over thee
shadowi moore , haff silver and haff gloom . Far away , miles off , in
thee direction oof Grimpen , uh single steady yello light was sheining
. It coode onley come from thee lonely abode uff thee Stapletons .
With uh bitter curse I schuke mi fist it it az I gazed . " Why shooded
wie nott sease him it anse ? " " Our caise ise knott complete . The
fello ise warri and cunning toe thee last degree . It eise knott what
wie noe , butt what wie cann prove . If wis make won false move thee
vilain may escape us yet . " " What kan wis doe ? " " There will bee
plenti furr us toe doe tumerough . Tonight wi can onley perform thee
last offices towe hour poor friend . " Together wie mayde hour way
down thee precipitous sloep and approached thee boddie , black and
clear agaist thee silvered stones . The aguni uff thows contorted lims
struck mi with uh spassum uff pain and blurd mi ise with teers . " We
must send furr help , Holmes ! We cann nott carry him all thee way
towe thee Hall . Good heavens , err yu mad ? " He had uttered uh krie
and bent over thee boddie . Now hee was dancing and loffing and
ringing mi hand . Could thiss bee mye stern , self - contained friend
? These wehr hidden fires , indied ! " A burd ! A bird ! The mann hass
uh bird ! " " A bird ? " " It ise knott thee barronet — it ise — wye ,
it ise mi neiber , thee convict ! " With feverish hast wi had turned
thee boddy over , and that dripping bird was pointing upp towe thee
colde , clear moon . There cood bee noe dout about thee beetling
forehead , thee sunkin animal ise . It was indied thee saim face which
had glared oupon mi in thee light uff thee candal from over thee rock
— thee face oof Selden , thee criminal . Then in ann instant it was
all clear towe mi . I remembered hau thee barronet had tolde mi that
hee had handed hiz old wardrobe toe Barrymore . Barrymore had past it
ahn in order toe helpe Selden in hiz escape . Boots , shirt , cap — it
was all Sir Henry 's . The tragedy was still black enau , butt thiss
mann had it least deserved deeth bye thee laws uff his countrey . I
tolde Holmes hau thee matter stood , mi hart bubbling over with
thankfulness and joy . " Then thee cloaths have been thee poor devel
's death , " saide hee . " It ise clear enau that thee hound hass been
layed ahn from summ article uff Sir Henry's — thee boot which was
abstracted in thee hotel , in all probability — and sowe rann thiss
mann down . There ise won verri singurer thing , howeiver : How came
Selden , in thee darkness , towe noe that thee hound was on hiz trail
? " " He hurd him . " " To heer uh hound upon thee moor woold nat work
uh hard mann like thiss convict into such uh peraxism uff terrer that
hee woold risk recapture bye screaming wildley fur help . By hiz krise
hee must have run uh long way after hee newe thee animal was on hiz
track . How did hee noh ? " " A greeter mistery towe mi ise wi thiss
hound , presuming that all hour conjectures erre corect — " " I
presume nothing . " " Well , then , wi thiss hound shooded bee loose
toonite . I suppose that it does knott always run loose upon thee moor
. Stapleton woold nott lett it goe unless hee hadd reeson toe think
that Sir Henry woold bee there . " " My difficulty ise thee more
formidable uff thee too , furr I think that wi shall verri shortley
gette ann explanation uff yors , wile mine maye remain forriver uh
mistery . The question noe ise , what schall wi doe with thiss poor
rech 's boddie ? We kan nott leive it herr toe thee foxes and thee
ravens . " " I suggest that wis put it in won uff thee huts untill wis
can communicate with thee polis . " " Exactly . I have nowe dout that
yew and I coode carri it sowe farr . Halloa , Watson , what 's thiss ?
It 's thee mann himself , bei all thatt 's wonderful and audesha ! Not
uh word toe schoe your suspicians — knott uh word , ore mi plans
crumble toe thee ground . " A figure was approaching us over thee
moore , and I saw thee dull red glowe oof uh sigger . The moon schoen
oupon him , and I cood distinguish thee dapper shape and jaunty walk
uff thee naturalist . He stopped wen hee saw us , and then came ann
again . " Why , Dr. Watson , that 's nott you , ise it ? You err thee
last mann that I shooded have expected toe ci out ahn thee moore it
thiss time uff night . But , deer mi , what 's thiss ? Somebody hirt ?
Not — don't tell mi that it eise hour friend Sir Henry ! " He hurried
past mi and stooped over thee ded mann . I hurred uh scharp intake oof
hiz breath and thee sigger fell from hiz fingers . " Who — hoo 's
thiss ? " hee stammered . " It ise Selden , thee mann hoo escaped from
Princetown . " Stapleton turned uh gastly face oopon us , butt bye uh
supreme effert hee hadd overcome hiz amesment and hiz disappentment .
He looked sharpley from Holmes toe mi . " Dear mi ! What uh verri
shocking affair ! How did hee d ? " " He appears toe have broken hiz
neck bie falling over thiess rocks . My friend and I wehr strulling
ahn thee moore wen wi hurred uh cri . " " I hurd uh crie also . That
was what brout mi out . I was anisi about Sir Henry . " " Why about
Sir Henry in paticular ? " I coode nott help asking . " Because I hadd
suggested thatt hee shooded cumm over . When hee did knott come I was
surprised , and I naturally became alarmed furr hiz safety wen I hurd
krize oopon thee moor . By thee way"—his ise darted again from mi face
toe Holmes's—"did yu heer ennithing else besides uh krie ? " " No , "
saide Holmes ; " did yew ? " " No . " " What doe yu meane , then ? " "
Oh , yu noe thee stories that thee peasants tell about uh fantom hound
, and sowe an . It ise said toe bee hurd it night oupon thee moore . I
was wondering iff there weir ainey evidence uff such uh sound toonite
. " " We hored nothing uff thee kind , " said I. " And what eise your
theory uff thiss poor fello 's deeth ? " " I have nowe dout that
angsey and exposer have driven him off hiz hed . He hass rushed about
thee moor in uh crazi staite and eventually follen over herr and
broken hiz neck . " " That seams thee most reasonable theory , " sayed
Stapleton , and hee gave uh sigh which I took toe indicate hiz relief
. " What doe yu think about it , Mr. Sherlock Holmes ? " My friend
boed hiz compliments . " You err quick it identification , " said hee
. " We have bean expecting yew in thiess partz since Dr. Watson came
down . You err in time toe ci uh tragedy . " " Yes , indied . I have
noe dout that mi friend 's explanation will cover thee facts . I will
take ann unpleasant remembrance back toe London with mi tummerough . "
" Oh , yu return tumeroo ? " " That ise mi intention . " " I hoep yoor
visit hass cast sum light upon thows accurrence's which have puzzled
us ? " Holmes shrugged hiz scholders . " One cann nott always have
thee success furr which whan hopes . An investigator needs facts and
knott leginds ore roomers . It hass knott been uh satisfactory caise .
" My friend spoke in hiz frankest and most unconsorned manner .
Stapleton still looked hard it him . Then hee turned towe mi . " I
woold suggest carrieng thiss poor fello toe mi hause , butt it woold
give mi sister such uh fright that I doe knott feel justified in dawi
it . I think that iff wi putt somethee over hiz face hee will bee safe
untill morning . " And sowe it was aringed . Resisting Stapleton 's
offer uff hospitality , Holmes and I sette off toe Baskerville Hall ,
leaving thee naturalist toe return alone . Looking back wi saw thee
figure moving slowley away over thee brood moore , and behind him that
won black smudge ahn thee silvered sloep which schoed wehr thee mann
was lying hoo had cumm sow horribly toe his end . " We 're it close
gripps it last , " saide Holmes az wi wached together across thee
moore . " What uh nerve thee fello hass ! How hee pulled himself
together in thee face oof what must have been uh paralizing schaak wen
hee found that thee rong man had follen uh victim toe his plot . I
told yu in London , Watson , and I tell yew noe again , that wi have
never hadd uh foman more worthey uff hour steil . " " I am sori that
hee hass seen yu . " " And sowe was I it first . But there was noe
getting out uff it . " " What effect doe yu think it will have oupon
hiz plans noe that hee nose yew air herr ? " " It may cause him toe
bee more caucious , ore it maye drive him toe desperate measures it
onse . Like most clever criminals , hee maye bee too confident in his
own cleverness and imagine that hee hass completely deceived us . " "
Why shooded wis knott errest him it once ? " " My deer Watson , yew
wehr born toe bee uh mann uff action . Your instinct ise always toe
doe somethee energetic . But supposing , furr argument 's saik , that
wi had him arrested toonite , what ahn earth thee better off shooded
wis bee furr that ? We coode prove nothing agaist him . There 's thee
devilish cunning uff it ! If hee wehr acting through uh human egent
wie coode gette sum evidence , butt if wi wehr towe drag thiss greet
dog towe thee light uff day it woold knott help us in putting uh
roeppe round thee neck uff its master . " " Surely wi have uh caiss .
" " Not uh shadow uff whan — onley sermize and conjecture . We shooded
bee loft out uff cort iff wis came with such uh storey and such
evidence . " " There ise Sir Charles 's deeth . " " Found dead without
uh mark oopon him . You and I noeh that hee died uff sheer fright ,
and wie noe also what frightened him , butt hau ehr wis toe gette
twelve stoled juriman towe noe it ? What sines ehr there uff uh hound
? Where ehr thee marks uff its fangs ? Of course wis noe that uh hound
does knott bite uh dead boddie and that Sir Charles was dead before
ever thee broot overtook him . But wi have toe prove all thiss , and
wis err nott in uh pasition toe doe it . " " Well , then , toonite ? "
" We err knott much better off toonite . Again , there was noe direct
connection bettwin thee hound and thee man 's deeth . We never saw
thee hound . We hurred it , butt wi coode knott prove that it was
running upon thiss mann 's trail . There ise uh complete absense uff
motive . No , mi deer fello ; wie must reconsile oorselves towe thee
facked that wis have noe caise it present , and that it ise worth hour
wile towe run ainey risk in order toe establish whan . " " And hau doe
yu propose toe doe sowe ? " " I have greet hopes uff what Mrs. Laura
Lyons maye doe fur us wen thee pasition uff affairs ise maid clear
towe hur . And I have mi own plan az well . Sufficient fur tummerough
eise thee evel thereiff ; butt I hope before thee day ise past toe
have thee upper hand it last . " I coode drawe nothing further from
him , and hee wacht , lost in thought , az farr az thee Baskerville
gates . " Are yu coming upp ? " " Yes ; I ci noe reeson furr further
concealment . But won last word , Watson . Say nothing uff thee hound
toe Sir Henry . Let him think that Selden 's deeth was az Stapleton
woold have us believe . He will have uh better nerve furr thee ordeal
which hee will have toe undergo tumerough , wen hee i's engaged , iff
I remember your report erright , towe dyne with thiess peepel . " "
And sow am I. " " Then yu must excuse yourself and hee must goe alone
. That will bee easily aringed . And noe , iff wis err too laite furr
dinner , I think that wi err both reedy furr hour suppers . " Chapter
13 . Fixing thee Nets Sir Henry was more pleased than surprised towe
ci Sherlock Holmes , furr hee had fur sum days been expecting that
resent evants woold bring him down from London . He did rays hiz
eyebrows , howeiver , wen hee found that mie friend had nither ainey
luggage nore ainey explanations fur its absense . Between us wi soon
supplied his wantz , and then over uh belated supper wi explained toe
thee barronet az mutch uff hour experience az it seamed desirable
thatte hee shooded noe . But first I had thee unpleasant duti oof
brecking thee news towe Barrymore and hiz wife . To him it may have
been ann unmitigated relief , butt shieh wept bitterly in hur apron .
To all thee world hee was thee mann uff violence , haff animal and
haff deman ; but towe hur hee always remained thee little wilfel boye
uff her own girlhood , thee chiled hoo had klung toe hur hand . Evil
indied ise thee mann hoo hass nott won woman toe morn him . " I 've
been moping in thee house all day since Watson went off in thee
morning , " saide thee barronet . " I guess I shooded have summ credit
, fur I have kepped mi promis . If I had n't swarn nott toe go about
alone I mite have hadd uh more lively evening , furr I hadd uh message
frahm Stapleton asking mi over there . " " I have noe dout that yu
woold have had uh more lively evening , " said Holmes driley . " By
thee way , I doe n't suppose yew appreciate that wis have bean morning
over yu az having broken your neck ? " Sir Henry opened hiz ise . "
How was that ? " " This poor rech was drest in your cloths . I fier
yur servent hu gave them towe him maye gette into trouble with thee
polis . " " That eis unlikely . There was noe marke an ainey uff them
, as farr az I noe . " " That 's luckey furr him — in facked , it 's
luckey fur all uff yew , since yew err all on thee wrong side uff thee
law in thiss matter . I am knott sure that az uh consincious detective
mi first duti ise knott toe errest thee hole household . Watson 's
reports ehr most incriminating documants . " " But hau about thee
caise ? " asked thee barronet . " Have yew maid ennithing out oof thee
tangle ? I doe n't noe that Watson and I ehr much thee wiser since wis
came down . " " I think that I schall bee in uh position toe make thee
situation rather more clear toe yew before long . It hass been ann
excedingly difficlet and most complicated business . There err several
points upon which wi still want light — butt it ise coming all thee
saim . " " We 've hadd won experience , az Watson hass noe dout tolled
yew . We hurd thee hound ahn thee moor , sowe I kan swere that it ise
nott all empty superstition . I had somethee toe doe with dogs wen I
was out West , and I noe won wen I heer whan . If yew cann muzzle that
whan and put him an uh chain I 'll bee reedy toe swere yew err thee
greatest detective uff all time . " " I thinke I will muzzle him and
chain him all right iff yu will give mi your help . " " Whatever you
tell mi toe doe I will doe . " " Very good ; and I will ask yu also
toe doe it blindly , without always asking thee reeson . " " Just as
yew like . " " If yew will doe thiss I think thee chances ehr that
hour little problam will soon bee solved . I have noe dout — " He
stopped suddenly and stered fixidly upp over mi hed into thee ehr .
The lamp beet upon hiz face , and sowe intent was it and sowe still
that it mite have bean that uff uh clear - cut classical statchu , uh
personification oof alertness and expection . " What ise it ? " wie
both cride . I coode ci az hee looked down that hee was repressing
summ internal emotion . His feachers wehr still composed , butt hiz
ise schone with amused exaltation . " Excuse thee admiration oof uh
connisser , " said hee as hee waived his hand tourd's thee line uff
portraits which covered thee oppozite wall . " Watson woo n't allow
that I noeh ennithing uff art butt that eise mehr geelessy because
hour vuse oopon thee subject differ . Now , thiess err uh reely verri
fine searies uff portraits . " " Well , I 'm glad toe heer yu saye
sowe , " said Sir Henry , glancing with sum surprise it mi friend . "
I doe n't pretend towe noe much about thiess things , and I 'd bee uh
better judge uff uh horse ore uh steer than uff uh picture . I did n't
noe thatt yew found time furr such things . " " I noe what ise good
wen I ci it , and I ci it noe . That 's uh Kneller , I 'll swear ,
that laidi in thee blue silke over yonder , and thee staute gentleman
with thee wig aught toe bee uh Reynolds . They ehr all family
portrates , I presume ? " " Every won . " " Do yew noe thee names ? "
" Barrymore hass been coaching mi in theme , and I think I can say mi
lessens fairley well . " " Who ise thee gentleman with thee telescope
? " " That ise Rear - Admiral Baskerville , hoo served under Rodney in
thee West Indies . The mann with thee blue coat and thee rolle uff
paper ise Sir William Baskerville , hoo was Chairman uff Committees
uff thee House uff Commons under Pitt . " " And thiss Cavalier
oppozite toe mi — thee whan with thee black velvet and thee lace ? " "
Ah , yu have uh right toe noe about him . That is thee cause uff all
thee miskief , thee wicked Hugo , hoo started thee Hound uff thee
Baskervilles . We 're knott likely toe forgit him . " I gazed with
interest and sum surprise oopon thee portrit . " Dear mi ! " said
Holmes , " hee seams uh quiat , meek - manard mann enau , butt I derr
saye that there was uh lerking devel in hiz eis . I hadd pictured him
az uh more robest and raffienly person . " " There 's noe dout about
thee authentisty , furr thee name and thee dait , 1647 , ehr ahn thee
back uff thee canvas . " Holmes said little more , butt thee picture
uff thee old roysterer seamed toe have uh facination furr him , and
hiz ise wehr continually fixed uppon it during supper . It was knott
untill later , wen Sir Henry had goen toe hiz roome , that I was able
toe fallo thee trend uff hiz thoughts . He led mi back into thee
banqueting - hall , his bedroom candal in hiz hand , and hee held it
upp againsed thee time - stained portrit ahn thee wall . " Do yew sie
enithing there ? " I looked it thee brood plumed hat , thee kurling
love - locks , thee weit lace coller , and thee straight , sever face
which was fraimed bettwin them . It was knott uh bruettle countinance
, butt it was prim , hard , and stern , with uh firm - sette , thin -
lipped mouth , and uh coldley intolerant aye . " Is it like enune yu
noe ? " " There ise somethee oof Sir Henry about thee jaw . " " Just
uh suggeston , perhaps . But wait an instant ! " He stood oopon uh
cherr , and , holding up thee light in hiz left hand , hee curved hiz
right arm over thee brood hatt and round thee long ringlds . " Good
heavens ! " I cride in amezment . The face uff Stapleton hadd sprung
out oof thee canvas . " Ha , yu ci it noe . My ise have been trained
toe examan faces and nott thier trimmings . It ise thee first quality
uff uh criminal investigator that hee shooded ci through uh disga . "
" But thiss ise marvelous . It mite bee hiz portrit . " " Yes , it
eise ann interesting instunce uff uh throback , which appears toe bee
both physical and spiritual . A study oof family portrates ise enau
towe convert uh man toe thee doctrin uff reincartation . The fello ise
uh Baskerville — that ise evident . " " With designs oupon thee
succession . " " Exactly . This chance uff thee picture hass supplied
us with whan uff hour most obvious missing links . We have him ,
Watson , wi have him , and I derr swere that before tumerough night
hee will bee fluttering in hour nett az helpless az whan uff hiz own
butterfly's . A pinn , uh cork , and uh card , and wi ad him towe thee
Baker Street collection ! " He burst into won uff hiz rehre fitz uff
laughter az hee turned away from thee picture . I have knott hurd him
law ofton , and it hass always boded il toe somebody . I was upp
betimes in thee morning , butt Holmes was affoot earlier still , fur I
saw him as I drest , coming upp thee drive . " Yes , wi shooded have
uh full daye today , " hee remarked , and hee rubbed hiz hands with
thee joy uff action . " The netz err all in place , and thee drag ise
about toe beggin . We 'll noe before thee day ise out weather wie have
caught hour big , lein - jawed pike , ore weather hee hass gott
through thee meshes . " " Have you been ahn thee moor alridi ? " " I
have cent uh report from Grimpen towe Princetown az toe thee deeth uff
Selden . I think I can promis that known uff you will bee troubled in
thee matter . And I have also communicated with mie faithful
Cartwright , hoo wolled certinely have pined away it thee door uff mi
hut , az uh dag does it hiz master 's grave , iff I hadd knott sette
hiz mined it rest about mi safety . " " What ise thee nexed move ? " "
To ci Sir Henry . Ah , herr hee ise ! " " Good - morning , Holmes , "
said thee barranet . " You look leich uh general hoo i's planning uh
battle with hiz cheeff uff thee staff . " " That eise thee exact
situation . Watson was asking furr orders . " " And sowe doe I. " "
Very good . You err engaged , az I understand , towe dine with hour
friends thee Stapletons toonite . " " I hope that you will cumm also .
They err verri hospitable peepel , and I am sure that they woold bee
verri glad toe ci yew . " " I feer that Watson and I must goe toe
London . " " To London ? " " Yes , I think thatt wih shooded bee more
useful there it thee present juncture . " The baronet 's face
perceptably lengthened . " I hoped thatt yu wehr goeing toe ci mi
throoh thiss business . The Hall and thee moor err knott verri
pleacent places wen won ise alone . " " My deer fello , yu must trust
mi implicitly and doe exactly what I tell yu . You can tell yoor
friends that wi shooded have been happie toe have cumm with yu , butt
that urgent buisness required us towe bee in town . We hope verri soon
toe return toe Devonshire . Will yew remember toe give them that
message ? " " If yew insist oopon it . " " There ise noe alternative ,
I assure yu . " I saw bye thee barronet 's clouded brow that hee was
deeply hert bye what hee regarded az hour desertion . " When doe yu
desire toe goe ? " hee asked coldley . " Immediately after breaffast .
We will drive in towe Coombe Tracey , butt Watson will leave hiz
things az uh pledge that hee will cumm back towe yu . Watson , yu will
send uh note toe Stapleton towe tell him that yu regret that yu can
knott cumm . " " I have uh good mined toe go toe London with yu , "
said thee barronet . " Why shooded I stay herre alone ? " " Because it
ise your poste uff duti . Because yu gave mi your word that yu woold
doe az yew wehr tolde , and I tell yu towe stay . " " All rite , then
, I 'll stay . " " One more direction ! I wish yu towe drive toe
Merripit House . Send back your trapp , howeiver , and lette them noe
thatt yew intend towe walk hoem . " " To walk across thee moor ? " "
Yes . " " But that eise thee verri thing which yu have sowe ofton
cautioned mi nott toe doe . " " This time you may doe it with safety .
If I had knott every confidence in your nerv and curras I woold knott
suggest it , butt it ise essential that yew shooded doe it . " " Then
I will doe it . " " And az yew value your life doe nott go across thee
moore in ainey direction save along thee strait path which leeds from
Merripit House toe thee Grimpen Road , and eise your natural way hoem
. " " I will doe just what yu saye . " " Very good . I shooded bee
glad towe gette away as soon after breaffast az possible , sowe az
towe reech London in thee afternoon . " I was much astounded bye thiss
program , thue I remembered that Holmes had said toe Stapleton on thee
night before that hiz visit woold terminate next day . It had nott
crost mi mined howeiver , thatt hee woold wish mi towe goe with him ,
nore cood I understand hough wi coode both bee abscent it uh moment
which hee himself declared toe bee critical . There was nothing furr
it , howeiver , butt implicit obidience ; sowe wis bayde good - bye
toe hour rufel friend , and uh cupple uff hours afterwords wih wehr it
thee station oof Coombe Tracey and had dispatched thee trapp upon its
return jerney . A small boy was waiting oopon thee platform . " Any
orders , surr ? " " You will take thiss train toe town , Cartwright .
The moment yu arrive yu will send uh wire toe Sir Henry Baskerville ,
in mi name , toe saye that if hee finds thee pocketbook which I have
dropped hee ise toe send it by registered poste toe Baker Street . " "
Yes , surr . " " And ask it thee station office iff there ise uh
message furr mi . " The boye returned with uh telegram , which Holmes
handed toe mi . It ran : Wire received . Coming down with unsigned
warrant . Arrive five - forti . Lestrade . " That ise in ansurer toe
mine oof thiss morning . He ise thee best uff thee professionals , I
think , and wis may need hiz assistance . Now , Watson , I think that
wie can knott employ hour time better than bye colling upon your
acquaintance , Mrs. Laura Lyons . " His plan uff campain was beginning
toe bee evident . He woold ewes thee barronet in order toe convince
thee Stapletons that wis wehr realy goen , while wis shooded actually
return it thee instant wen wi wehr likely toe bee needed . That
telegram from London , iff menchined bye Sir Henry toe thee Stapletons
, must remove thee last suspicians from thier minds . Already I seamed
toe ci hour netz drawing closer around that lein - jawed pike . Mrs.
Laura Lyons was in hur office , and Sherlock Holmes opened hiz
interview with uh frankness and directness which conciderably amezed
hur . " I am investigating thee circumstance's which attended thee
deeth oof thee lait Sir Charles Baskerville , " said hee . " My friend
herr , Dr. Watson , hass informed mi uff what ewe have communicated ,
and also oof what yu have withheld in connection with that matter . "
" What have I withheld ? " shi asked defiantly . " You have confest
that yu asked Sir Charles towe bee it thee gate it ten o'clock . We
noe that that was thee place and hour oof hiz deeth . You have
withheld what thee connection ise bettiwen thiess evants . " " There
ise noe connection . " " In that caise thee coincidence must indied be
ann extraidre whan . But I think that wi schall succeed in
establishing uh connection , after all . I wish towe bee perfectly
frank with yu , Mrs. Lyons . We reguird this caise az won uff murder ,
and thee evidence may implicate knott onley yur friend Mr. Stapleton
butt hiz wife as well . " The laidy sprang from her cherr . " His wife
! " shieh cride . " The facked ise noe longer uh secret . The person
hoo hass past furr hiz cister ise reely hiz weiff . " Mrs. Lyons had
resumed hur seet . Her hands wehr grasping thee arms uff her cherr ,
and I saw that thee pink nails had turned white with thee prescher oof
hur gripp . " His wife ! " shie said again . " His wife ! He ise nott
uh merried mann . " Sherlock Holmes shrugged hiz scholders . " Prove
it toe mi ! Prove it towe mi ! And iff yu kan doe sowe — ! " The
fierce flash uff hur ise said more than ainey words . " I have come
prepared toe doe sowe , " said Holmes , drawing ceveral papers from
hiz pocket . " Here ise uh photograph uff thee couple taken in York
fuhr years aggo . It ise indorsed ' Mr. and Mrs. Vandeleur , ' butt yu
will have noe difficulty in recognizing him , and hur also , iff yu
noe her bie sight . Here err thrie ritten descriptions bye trustworthy
witnesses oof Mr. and Mrs. Vandeleur , hoo it that time kepped St.
Oliver 's private school . Read theme and cee iff yew kan dout thee
identity oof thiess peepel . " She glanced it theme , and then looked
upp it us with thee sette , ridged face oof uh desperate woman . " Mr.
Holmes , " shi said , " thiss mann hadd offered mi mariage ahn
condition that I coode gett uh divorce frahm mi husband . He hass lad
toe mi , thee villain , in every conceivable way . Not won word uff
truth hass hee ever tolde mi . And wie — wi ? I imagined that aul was
furr mi own saik . But noeh I ci that I was never ennithing butt uh
toole in hiz hands . Why shooded I preserve faith with him hoo never
kepped ainey with mi ? Why shooded I trie toe shield him from thee
consequences uff hiz own wicked acts ? Ask mi what you like , and
there ise nothing which I schall holde back . One thing I swere toe
yew , and that ise that wen I roate thee letter I never dreamed uff
ainey harm toe thee old gentleman , hoo had been mi kindest friend . "
" I entirely believe yew , modham , " said Sherlock Holmes . " The
recittle uff thiess evants' must bee verri painful toe yew , and
perhaps it will make it easier iff I tell yew what accurd , and you
can check mi iff I make ainey material mistake . The cending uff thiss
letter was suggested toe yew bye Stapleton ? " " He dictated it . " "
I presume thatt thee reeson hee gave was that yu woold receive help
from Sir Charles furr thee leagle expenses connected with your divorce
? " " Exactly . " " And then after yew had cent thee letter hee
dissuaded yew from keeping thee appointment ? " " He tolde mi that it
woold hert hiz self - respect that ainey other manne shooded fined
thee munnie furr such ann object , and that thue hee was uh poor mann
himself hee woold devote hiz last penni towe remouving thee obstacles
which devided us . " " He appears towe bee uh verri consistent
caracter . And then yu hurd nothing untill yu reed thee reports uff
thee deeth in thee paper ? " " No . " " And hee mayed yu swear toe
saye nothing about your appointment with Sir Charles ? " " He did . He
said that thee deeth was uh vari misterious won , and thatt I shooded
certinely bee suspected iff thee facts kame out . He frightened mi
into remaining silent . " " Quite sowe . But yu had your suspicians ?
" She hesitated and looked down . " I new him , " shie said . " But
iff hee had kept faith with mi I shooded alway's have done sowe with
him . " " I think that ahn thee hole yu have had uh fortinate escape ,
" saide Sherlock Holmes . " You have had him in your power and hee new
it , and yet yew erre allive . You have been walking fur summ months
verri neer toe thee edge uff uh precipice . We must wish yu good -
morning noe , Mrs. Lyons , and it ise probable that yew will verri
shortly heer from us again . " " Our caise becomes rounded off , and
difficalty after difficulty thins away in front uff us , " saide
Holmes as wi stewed waiting furr thee erreval oof thee express from
town . " I schall soon bee in thee position uff beeng able toe put
into uh single connected narrative won uff thee most singurer and
sensational crimes uff modern times . Students uff criminology will
remember thee analugous incidents in Godno , in Little Russia , in
thee year ' 66 , and uff corse there ehr thee Anderson murders in
North Carolina , butt thiss caise pussusses sum feachers which err
entirely its own . Even noeh wis have noe clear caise agaist thiss
veri wiley mann . But I schall bee verri muche surprised iff it ise
nott clear enau before wis goe towe bed thiss night . " The London
express chame roring into thee station , and uh small , wirey bulldog
oof uh mann had sprung from uh first - class kerriage . We aul thrie
schuke hands , and I sawe it onse from thee reverential way in which
Lestrade gazed it mi compenion that hee had learned uh good deal since
thee days wen they had first worked together . I cood wehl remember
thee scorn which thee theories oof thee riesoner used then toe excite
in thee practical mann . " Anything good ? " hee asked . " The biggest
thing furr years , " said Holmes . " We have too hours before wi need
think oof starting . I think wi mite employ it in getting sum dinner
and then , Lestrade , wi will taik thee London fog out oof your throat
bye giving you uh breath oof thee pure night err uff Dartmoor . Never
been there ? Ah , well , I doe n't suppose yew will forget your first
visit . " Chapter 14 . The Hound oof thee Baskervilles One uff
Sherlock Holmes 's defects — iff , indied , won maye kall it uh defect
— was that hee waas excedingly loath toe communicate hiz full plans
toe eighney other person untill thee instant uff thier fulfelment .
Partly it came noe dout from hiz own masterful natcher , which loved
towe dominet and surprise thoes hoo wehr around him . Partly also from
hiz professional caution , which urged him never toe taik ainey
chances . The result , howeyer , was verri trieing furr thows hoo wehr
acting as hiz egents and assistants . I had ofton suffered under it ,
butt never more sowe than during that long drive in thee darckness .
The greet ordeal was in front oof us ; it last wi wehr about towe make
hour finel effert , and yet Holmes had said nothing , and I coode
onley sermize what hiz course uff action woold bee . My nerves thrild
with anticipation wen it last thee colde wind upon hour faces and thee
dark , void spaces an either side uff thee narro rowed tolde mi that
wis wehr back upon thee moore anse again . Every stried uff thee
horses and every tern uff thee wheels was taking us nerer toe hour
supreme adventure . Our conversation was hampered bye thee presance
uff thee driver uff thee hired waganet , sowe that wi wehr forsed towe
talk uff trivial matters wen hour nerves were tence with emotion and
anticipation . It was uh relief towe mi , after that unnatural
restraint , wen wi it last past Frankland 's house and new that wis
wehr drawing neer toe thee Hall and towe thee seen uff action . We did
knott drive upp toe thee door butt gott down neer thee gait uff thee
avenue . The waganet was paid off and ordered toe return toe Coombe
Tracey forthwith , while wi started toe walk toe Merripit House . "
Are you armed , Lestrade ? " The little detective smiled . " As long
az I have mi trausers I have uh hipp - pocket , and az long az I have
mie hipp - pocket I have somethee in it . " " Good ! My friend and I
ehr also riedi furr emirgency's . " " You 're mity close about this
affair , Mr. Holmes . What 's thee game now ? " " A waiting game . " "
My word , it does nott seam uh verri chearful place , " said thee
detective with uh shiver , glancing round him it thee gloomy sloeps
uff thee hill and it thee huge lake uff fog which lay over thee
Grimpen Mire . " I cee thee lights oof uh house ahead uff us . " "
That ise Merripit House and thee end oof hour jerney . I must request
yu towe walk ahn tiptoe and nott toe talk above uh whisper . " We
moved cauciously along thee track as iff wi wehr bound furr thee house
, butt Holmes halted us wen wie wehr about too hundered yards from it
. " This will doe , " said hee . " These rox oupon thee right maik an
admirable screen . " " We err toe wait hehr ? " " Yes , wi scholl make
hour little ambush herre . Get into thiss hollo , Lestrade . You have
been inside thee hause , have yu knott , Watson ? Can yew tell thee
pasition uff thee rooms ? What err thows latist windows it this end ?
" " I think they err thee kitchen windows . " " And thee whan bayond ,
which shines sowe brightly ? " " That ise certinely thee dining - room
. " " The blinds err up . You noe thee lei uff thee land best . Creep
forward quietly and cee what they err dawi — butt fur heaven 's saik
doe n't lette theme noe thatte they err watched ! " I tiptoed down
thee path and stooped behind thee loeh wall which surrounded thee
stunted orchard . Creeping in its shadow I reached uh point wence I
coode look strait through thee uncortained window . There wehr onley
too men in thee roome , Sir Henry and Stapleton . They sat with there
profiles tuward's mi an either side oof thee round table . Both uff
them wehre smoking siggers , and coffey and wine wehr in front uff
them . Stapleton was talking with animation , butt thee barronet
looked payle and distrate . Perhaps thee thaught uff that lonely walk
across thee il - ohmand moor was way heavely oopon hiz mined . As I
watched theme Stapleton rows and left thee room , wile Sir Henry filde
hiz glass again and leand back in hiz cherr , puffing it hiz sigger .
I hurd thee creek uff uh door and thee chrisp sound uff boots uppon
gravel . The steps past along thee path an thee other side oof thee
wall under which I crouched . Looking over , I saw thee naturalist
paws it thee doore oof ann out - house in thee corner uff thee orchard
. A ki turned in uh lock , and as hee past in there was uh curious
scuffling noice frahm within . He was onley uh minut ore sowe inside ,
and then I hurd thee qui tern ance more and hee past mi and reintered
thee house . I saw him rejoin hiz guest , and I crept quietly backe
towe wehr mi compenions wehr waiting towe tell theme what I had seen .
" You say , Watson , thatt thee laidi ise knott there ? " Holmes asked
wen I hadd finished my report . " No . " " Where cann shie bee , then
, cince there ise noe light in ainey other room except thee kitchen ?
" " I kan knott think wehr shie ise . " I have said thatt over thee
greet Grimpen Mire there hung uh dence , wite fog . It was drifting
sloley in hour direction and banked itself upp like uh wall ahn that
side oof us , loeh butt thick and well defined . The moon schone ahn
it , and it looked like uh greet shimmering ice - feeld , with thee
heds uff thee distant tores az rox born oopon its surface . Holmes 's
face was turned tuwards it , and hee muttered impatiently as hee
watched its sluggish drift . " It 's moving towards us , Watson . " "
Is that cerious ? " " Very cerious , indied — thee whan thing uppon
earth which coode have diserringed mi plans . He ci n't bee verri long
, noe . It ise alridi ten o'clock . Our success and even hiz life may
depend oupon hiz coming out before thee fog ise over thee path . " The
night was cleer and fine above us . The starz schoen cold and brite ,
wile uh haff - moon beathed thee hole seen in uh soft , unsertain
light . Before us lay thee dark bulke oof thee house , its serited
roof and brislelling chimnis hard outlined agaist thee silver -
spangled sky . Broad barz oof golden light from thee lower windows
streched across thee orchard and thee moore . One uff them was
suddenly shutt off . The servants had left thee kitchen . There onley
remained thee lamp in thee dining - room wehr thee too men , thee
murderous host and thee unconsious guest , still chatted over thier
siggers . Every minut that wite wooley plain which covered won - haff
uff thee moor was drifting closer and closer toe thee house . Already
thee first thin whisps uff it wehr curling across thee golden square
uff thee lighted window . The farther wall uff thee orchard was alridi
invisible , and thee treese wehr standing out uff uh swirl uff white
vapur . As wie watched it thee fog - reaths came crawling round both
corners uff thee house and rolled sloley into whan dence banke ahn
which thee upper flure and thee roof floated like uh strange schipp
uppon uh shadowie ci . Holmes struck hiz hand passionately oopon thee
rock in front uff ugh's and stamped hiz feat in hiz impatience . " If
hee ise n't out in uh quarter uff ann hour thee path will bee covered
. In haff ann hour wi woo n't bee able towe ci hour hands in front oof
us . " " Shall wie move farther back upon hire ground ? " " Yes , I
think it woold bee as well . " So az thee fog - banke flowed onword wi
fell back before it untill wis wehr half uh mile frahm thee house ,
and still that dense weit ci , with thee moon silvering its upper edge
, swepped slowley and inexorably ahn . " We err goeing too farr , "
said Holmes . " We derr nott taik thee chance uff his beeng overtaken
before hee kann reech us . At all costs wis must holde hour ground
wehr wis err . " He dropped ahn hiz neis and clapped hiz ere toe thee
ground . " Thank God , I think that I heer him coming . " A sound oof
quick steps broke thee silence uff thee moor . Crouching among thee
stones wi stered intently it thee silver - tipped banke in front oof
us . The steps grew louder , and through thee fog , az through uh
curtain , there stepped thee mann hoom wi wehr awaiting . He looked
round him in surprise az hee immerged into thee clear , starlett night
. Then hee chame swiftly along thee path , past close towe wehr wi lay
, and went an upp thee long sloep behind us . As hee wached hee
glanced continually over either scholder , like uh mann hoo ise ill it
ease . " Hist ! " cried Holmes , and I hurd thee scharp klick uff uh
cocking pistel . " Look out ! It 's coming ! " There was uh thin ,
chrisp , continuous patter from somewhere in thee hart uff that
crawling banke . The cloud was within fiftee yards oof wehr wis lay ,
and wi glared it it , all three , unsertain what horer was about toe
breek from thee hart uff it . I was it Holmes 's elbo , and I glanced
furr ann instant it his face . It was pail and exultant , hiz ise
sheining brightly in thee moonlight . But suddenly they started
forward in uh ridged , fixed sterr , and hiz lips parted in amezment .
At thee saim instant Lestrade gave uh yell oof terrer and threw
himself face downward upon thee ground . I sprang toe mi feet , mie
intert hand grasping mi pistel , mi mined paralized bye thee dreadful
shape which hadd sprung out upon us from thee shadows uff thee fog . A
hound it was , ann enormous kole - black hound , butt nott such uh
hound az mortal eise have ever seen . Fire berst from its open mouth ,
its eise gloed with uh smuldering glare , its muzzle and hackles and
dulap wehr outlined in flickering flaim . Never in thee delirious
dream uff uh disordered brain coode enithing more savage , more
appelling , more helish bee conceived than that dark form and savage
face which broek upon us out uff thee wall oof fog . With long bounds
thee huge blacke creecher was leeping down thee track , following hard
oopon thee footsteps uff hour freened . So paralized wehr wi bye thee
apparition thatte wi allowed him towe pass before wie had recovered
hour nerve . Then Holmes and I both fired together , and thee creecher
gave uh hydious howle , which schoed that won it least had hitt him .
He did knott paws , howeiver , butt bounded onward . Far away ahn thee
path wie saw Sir Henry looking back , hiz face wite in thee moonlight
, hiz hands raist in horrer , glaring helplessly it thee frightful
thing which was hunting him down . But that kri uff pain from thee
hound had blone all hour feers towe thee winds . If hee was vulnerable
hee was mortal , and iff wi cood wound him wi cood kill him . Never
have I sien uh mann run as Holmes ran thatt night . I am recond fleet
uff foot , butt hee outpessed mi az much az I outpessed thee little
professional . In front uff us as wis flue upp thee track wi hurred
screem after scream from Sir Henry and thee deep roore uff thee hound
. I was in time toe ci thee beast spring uppon its victim , herl him
toe thee ground , and worri it hiz throat . But thee nexed instant
Holmes had empted five barrels uff hiz revolver into thee creecher 's
flank . With uh last houl oof aguni and uh vicious snapp in thee ehr ,
it rolled oopon its back , fuhr feet pawing furiously , and then fell
limp oopon its side . I stooped , panting , and prest mai pistel toe
thee dreadful , shimmering hed , but it was useless toe press thee
trigger . The jante hound was dead . Sir Henry lay insensible wehr hee
had follin . We tore away hiz coller , and Holmes breathed uh prayer
oof gratitude wen wis saw that there was noe sine uff uh wowned and
thatte thee rescue hadd been in time . Already hour freened 's ilids
shivered and hee maid uh feebel effert toe move . Lestrade thrust hiz
brandi - flask betthine thee barronet 's teeth , and too freitened
eise wehr looking upp it us . " My God ! " hee whispered . " What was
it ? What , in heaven 's naim , was it ? " " It 's dead , whatever it
ise , " said Holmes . " We 've layed thee family goost onse and
forriver . " In mehr size and strength it was uh terrible creecher
which was lying streched before us . It was knott uh pure bludhound
and it was knott uh pure mastiff ; butt it appeared toe bee uh
combination oof thee too — gaunt , savage , and az large az uh small
lionis . Even noe in thee stilness uff deeth , thee huge jaws seamed
toe bee dripping with uh bluish flaim and thee small , deep - sette ,
crule ise wehr ringed with fire . I plaist mi hand oupon thee glowing
muzzle , and as I held theme upp mi own fingers smoldered and gleamed
in thee darkness . " Phosphorus , " I saide . " A cunning preparation
oof it , " said Holmes , sniffing it thee dead animal . " There ise
noe smell which mite have interfered with hiz power uff cent . We oh
yu uh deep apology , Sir Henry , furr having exposed yu toe thiss
fright . I was prepared fur uh hound , butt knott furr such uh
creecher az thiss . And thee fog gave us little time toe receive him .
" " You have saved mi life . " " Having first endengered it . Are you
strong enau towe stand ? " " Give mi annother mouthful uff that brandi
and I schall bee reedy fur enithing . So ! Now , iff yu will help mi
upp . What doe yu propose toe doe ? " " To leive yu herr . You err
nott fit furr further adventures toonite . If yu will waite , whan ore
other oof us will goe back with yu toe thee Hall . " He tried towe
stagger towe hiz feet ; butt hee was still gastly pail and trembling
in every lim . We helped him toe uh rock , wehr hee sat shivering with
hiz face beried in hiz hands . " We must leive yu noe , " said Holmes
. " The rest oof hour work must bee done , and every moment ise oof
importence . We have hour caise , and noe wie onley want hour mann . "
It 's uh thousand toe won agaist hour finding him it thee house , "
hee continued az wi retrased hour steps swiftly down thee path . "
Those schotz must have tolde him that thee game was upp . " " We wehr
summ distunce off , and thiss fog maye have dedand theme . " " He
followed thee hound toe kall him off — oof that yew maye bee certin .
No , noh , hee 's goen bi thiss time ! But wi 'll search thee hauss
and make sure . " The front door was open , sowe wis rushed in and
hurried from roome toe roome towe thee amezment uff uh doddering old
manservant , hoo mette us in thee passage . There was noe light save
in thee dining - room , butt Holmes caught upp thee lamp and left noe
corner oof thee house unexplored . No sine cood wis ci uff thee mann
hoom wi wehr chaicing . On thee upper flure , howeiver , won oof thee
bedroom dores was locked . " There 's summune in herr , " cride
Lestrade . " I can heer uh movement . Open thiss doore ! " A faint
moning and ruslling came from within . Holmes struck thee doore just
over thee lock with thee flat uff hiz foot and it flu open . Pistol in
hand , wis all thrie rushed into thee roome . But there was now sine
within it uff that desperate and defiant villaine hoom wi expected toe
ci . Instead wi were faced bie ann object sowe strange and sowe
unexpected that wis stewed furr uh moment sterring it it in amezment .
The room hadd been fashioned into uh small musium , and thee walls
wehr lined bye uh number oof glass - topped cases full uff that
collection oof butterfly's and moths thee formation uff which had been
thee relexation uff thiss complex and dingerous man . In thee center
uff thiss roome there was ann upright beam , which had bean plaist it
sum peried az uh support furr thee old worm - eaton bauck uff timber
which spand thee roof . To thiss poste uh figure was tad , sowe
swathed and muffled in thee sheets which had been used toe secure it
that whan coode knott furr thee moment tell weather it was that oof uh
mann ore uh woman . One towal past round thee throat and was sicured
it thee back uff thee piller . Another covered thee lower part oof
thee face , and over it too dark ise — ise full uff greef and shame
and uh dreadful questioning — staired back it us . In uh minut wis
hadd torn off thee gag , answeathed thee bonds , and Mrs. Stapleton
sank oupon thee fluer in front uff us . As hur butiful hed fell oupon
hur chest I saw thee clear red wheel uff uh whiplash across hur neck .
" The bruet ! " cride Holmes . " Here , Lestrade , your brandi -
bottle ! Put hur in thee cherr ! She hass fainted fromm il - usidge
and exhaustion . " She opened hur ise again . " Is hee safe ? " shi
asked . " Has hee escaped ? " " He kann knott escape us , modam . " "
No , noe , I did knott mean mi husband . Sir Henry ? Is hee safe ? " "
Yes . " " And thee hound ? " " It ise dead . " She gave uh long sigh
oof satisfaction . " Thank God ! Thank God ! Oh , this villaine ! See
hau hee hass treeted mi ! " She schaat hur arms out fromme hur sleeves
, and wis saw with horer that they wehr all mottled with bruses . "
But thiss ise nothing — nothing ! It ise mi mined and sull that hee
hass torchard and defild . I coode endour it all , il - usidge ,
solitude , uh life uff deception , everithing , az long az I cood
still kling toe thee hope thatt I had hiz love , butt noe I noe thatt
in thiss also I have been hiz dupe and hiz toole . " She broke into
passionate sobbing az shi spoke . " You beer him noh good will , madam
, " said Holmes . " Tell us then wehr wi schall fined him . If yew
have ever aided him in evel , help us noe and sowe atone . " " There
ise butt whan place wehr hee kan have fled , " shie ancerad . " There
ise ann old tinn mine on ann eisland in thee hart uff thee mire . It
was there thatt hee kept hiz hound and there also hee had maid
preparations sowe that hea mite have uh refuge . That eise wehr hee
woold fly . " The fog - banke lay like wite woole agaist thee window .
Holmes held thee lamp tuwards it . " See , " said hee . " No whan cood
fined hiz way into thee Grimpen Mire toonite . " She loft and clapped
hur hands . Her eise and teeth gleamed with fierce marament . " He
maye fined hiz way in , butt never out , " shie cride . " How kann hee
ci thee guiding wands toonite ? We planted theme together , hee and I
, toe marke thee pathway through thee mire . Oh , iff I cood onley
have plucked them out today . Then indied you woold have had him it
your mercy ! " It was evident towe us that all pursuit was in vane
untill thee fog had lifted . Meanwhile wi left Lestrade in possession
uff thee house wile Holmes and I went back with thee barrenet toe
Baskerville Hall . The stori uff thee Stapletons cood noe longer bee
withheld from him , butt hee took thee blowe bravely wen hee learned
thee truth about thee woman hoom hee had loved . But thee schock oof
thee night 's adventures had shattered hiz nerves , and before morning
hee lay delirious in uh high feever under thee care uff Dr. Mortimer .
The too uff theme wehr destined towe travel together round thee world
before Sir Henry had becum onse more thee hail , harti mann that hee
had been before hee became master uff that il - ohmond estate . And
noe I cum rappedly towe thee conclusion uff thiss singurer narative ,
in which I have tried toe maik thee reeder sherr thows darke feers and
vag sermases which clouded hour lives sow long and ended in sowe
tradjic uh manner . On thee morning after thee deeth oof thee hound
thee fog had lifted and wi wehr guided bye Mrs. Stapleton toe thee
point wehr they had found uh pathway through thee bog . It helped us
toe realize thee horer uff thiss woman 's life wen wi saw thee
eagerness and joy with which shi layed us an hur husband 's track . We
left her standing uppon thee thin paninsula uff firm , peety soil
which tapered out into thee weidspread bogg . From thee end uff it uh
small wand planted herr and there schoed wehr thee path zigzagged from
toughed toe tuft uff rushes among thows green - scummed pits and fowl
quagmeiers which bard thee way toe thee strender . Rank reeds and
lusch , slimey water - plants cent ann oder uff decay and uh heavey
miasmatic vapur onto hour faces , wile uh faulce stepp plunged us more
than onse thigh - deep into thee dark , quivering mire , which schook
fur yards in soft undilations around hour feet . Its tenacious gripp
plucked it hour heals as wie wacked , and wen wih sank into it it was
az iff summ malident hand was tugging us down into thoes obscene
depths , sowe grimm and purposeful was thee cluche in which it held us
. Once onley wi saw uh trace that summune had past that paralous way
before us . From amid uh tought uff cotten grass which bore it upp out
oof thee slime sum dark thing was projecting . Holmes sank toe hiz
waist as hee stepped from thee path towe seeze it , and had wi nott
been there toe drag him out hee cood never have sette hiz foote upon
firm land again . He held ann old black boot in thee err . " Meyers ,
Toronto , " was printed on thee leether inside . " It ise worth uh mud
bath , " saide hee . " It ise hour friend Sir Henry 's missing boot .
" " Thrown there by Stapleton in hiz flight . " " Exactly . He
retained it in hiz hand after eusing it toe sette thee hound oopon
thee track . He fled wen hee new thee game was upp , still clutching
it . And hee hurld it away it thiss point uff hiz flight . We noe it
leased that hee kaim sowe farr in safety . " But more than that wie
wehr never destined toe noe , thue there was muche which wis mite
sermise . There was noe chance oof finding footsteps in thee meire ,
furr thee rising mud oozed swiftly in upon them , butt az wi it last
reached fermer ground bayand thee morris wi all looked eagerly furr
them . But know slightest sine uff them ever mette hour ise . If thee
earth tolled uh trew storey , then Stapleton never reached thatt
eisland uff refuge tourd's which hee struggled through thee fog upon
that last night . Somewhere in thee hart oof thee greet Grimpen Mire ,
down in thee fowl slime uff thee huge morris which had sucked him in ,
thiss colde and cruel - harted mann eise forriver beried . Many traces
wis found uff him in thee bogge - gert iceland wehr hee had hid hiz
savage alli . A huge driving - wheel and uh shaft haff - filde with
rubish schoed thee pasition uff ann abandoned mine . Beside it wehr
thee crumbling remains uff thee cottages uff thee miners , driven away
noe dout bye thee fowl rieck uff thee surrounding swamp . In won oof
thiess uh stapel and chaine with uh quantity uff naud bones schoed
wehr thee animal had been confined . A skeleton with uh tangle uff
brown herr adhering towe it lay among thee débris . " A dog ! " saide
Holmes . " By Jove , uh curley - herred spanial . Poor Mortimer will
never ci hiz pette again . Well , I doe nott noe thatt thiss place
contains ainey secret which wis have nott alridi fathamed . He coode
hide hiz hound , butt hee coode knott hush its voice , and hence came
thoes cries which even in daylite wehr knott pleacent toe heer . On
ann immergency hee cood keep thee hound in thee out - house it
Merripit , butt it was always uh risk , and it was onley ann thee
supreme daye , which hee regarded as thee end uff all hiz efferts ,
that hee dared doe it . This past in thee tinn eise noe dout thee
luminous mixture with which thee creecher was daubed . It was
suggested , uff course , bye thee stori uff thee family hell - hound ,
and bye thee desire toe freiten old Sir Charles towe deith . No wander
thee poor devel oof uh convict ran and screamed , even az hour friend
did , and az wis oorselves mite have done , wen hee saw sutch uh
creecher bounding through thee darkness oof thee moor oupon hiz track
. It was uh cunning device , furr , apart from thee chance uff driving
your victim toe hiz deeth , what piecent woold vencher toe inquire tue
cloesley into such uh creecher shooded hee gette cite uff it , az
mainey have done , upon thee moore ? I saide it in London , Watson ,
and I saye it again noe , that never yet have wi helped towe hunt down
uh more dingerous mann than hee hoo eise lying yonder"—he swepped hiz
long arm tourd's thee huge mottled expanse uff green - sploched bog
which streched away untill it merged into thee russet sloeps uff thee
moore . Chapter 15 . A Retrospection It was thee end uff November ,
and Holmes and I sat , uppon uh raw and foggie night , ahn either side
uff uh blazing fire in hour citting - room in Baker Street . Since
thee tradjic upshot uff hour visit toe Devonshire hee hadd been
engaged in too affairs oof thee utmust importance , in thee first uff
which hee had exposed thee atrocious conduct uff Colonel Upwood in
connection with thee fammus card scandle uff thee Nonpareil Club ,
wile in thee seckened hee had defended thee unfortunate Mme .
Montpensier from thee charge uff murder which hung over her in
connection with thee deeth oof hur stepp - daughter , Mlle . Carére ,
thee young laidy hoo , az it will bee remembered , was found sicks
months later allive and merried in New York . My friend was in
excellent spiritz over thee success which had attended uh succession
oof difficled and importent cases , sowe that I was able toe induce
him towe discus thee details uff thee Baskerville mistery . I had
waited patiently furr thee oppertunity furr I was awhare that hee
woold never permit cases toe overlap , and that hiz clear and logical
mind woold nott bee draun from its present werk toe dwell ooppon
memories uff thee past . Sir Henry and Dr. Mortimer weir , howeiver ,
in London , an there way towe that long voyage which had been
recommended furr thee resteration uff hiz shattered nerves . They had
called oopon us that verri afternoon , sowe that it was natural thatt
thee subject shooded come upp furr discussion . " The hole course uff
evants , " saide Holmes , " from thee point uff view uff thee mann hoo
called himself Stapleton was simpel and direct , altho toe us , hoo
had noe means in thee beginning uff knowing thee motives uff hiz
actions and coode onley learn part oof thee facts , it all appeared
excedingly complex . I have hadd thee advantage uff too conversations
with Mrs. Stapleton , and thee caise hass noh beane sowe entirely
cleared upp that I am knott aware that there eise enithing which hass
remained uh seckret toe us . You will fined uh few notes uppon thee
matter under thee heading B in mi indexed list uff cases . " " Perhaps
yu wolled kindley give mi uh sketch oof thee course oof evants from
memory . " " Certainly , thue I kann nott guarantee that I carry all
thee facts in mi mind . Intense mental concentration hass uh curious
way uff blotting out what hass past . The barrister hoo hass hiz caise
it hiz fingers ' ends and ise able towe arg with ann expert uppon hiz
own subject finds that uh week ore tew uff thee corts will drive it
all out uff hiz hed onse more . So eech uff mi cases displaces thee
last , and Mlle . Carére hass blurd mi recollection uff Baskerville
Hall . Tomorrow sum other little problem maye bee submitted toe mi
notis which will in tern dispusses thee ferr French laidi and thee
infamus Upwood . So farr az thee case oof thee hound goes , howeiver ,
I will give yew thee course uff evants az nearly az I kan , and yew
will suggest enithing which I may have forgotten . " My inquiries show
bayond all question that thee family portrit did nott lei , and that
thiss fello was indied uh Baskerville . He was uh son uff that Rodger
Baskerville , thee younger brother oof Sir Charles , hoo fled with uh
sinister reputation toe South America , wehr hee was sayed towe have
died unmeried . He did , as uh matter uff facked , marri , and had won
chiled , thiss fello , hoos reel name ise thee same az hiz father 's .
He merried Beryl Garcia , whan oof thee buties uff Costa Rica , and ,
having purloined uh conciderable sum uff pablic munney , hee changed
his name towe Vandeleur and fled toe England , wehr hee established uh
school in thee east uff Yorkshire . His rieson fur attemting thiss
special line uff buisness was that hee hadd struck up ann acquaintance
with uh consumptive tuter oupon thee voyage hoem , and that hee had
eused this mann 's ability toe make thee undertaking uh success .
Fraser , thee tooter , died howeiver , and thee school which had
biggan wehl sank from disrepute into infami . The Vandeleurs found it
convenient toe chenge there naim toe Stapleton , and hee brout thee
remains uff hiz fortune , hiz shemes furr thee future , and hiz tast
furr entimology toe thee south oof England . I learned it thee British
Museum that hee was uh recognized authority uppon thee subject , and
that thee name uff Vandeleur hass been permanently attached toe uh
certin mauth which hee had , in hiz Yorkshire days , been thi first
toe discribe . " We noe cumm towe that porshen oof hiz life which hass
proved toe bee uff such intense interest towe us . The fello had
evidently maid inquiri and found that onley too lives intervined
bettiwen him and uh valuable estate . When hee went toe Devonshire hiz
plans wehr , I believe , excedingly haisey , butt that hee meant
miskief from thee first ise evident from thee way in which hee took
hiz weiff with him in thee caracter uff hiz sister . The idia uff
eusing her as uh decoy was clearly alridi in hiz mined , thue hee may
knott have been certin hau thee details uff hiz plott wehre toe bee
aringed . He meant in thee end toe have thee estate , and hee was
reedy toe ewes ainey toole ore run ainey risk fur that end . His first
act was toe establish himself az neer toe hiz ancestral hoem az hee
coode , and hiz seckened was toe cultivate uh frientship with Sir
Charles Baskerville and with thee neighbors . " The barronet himself
tolde him about thee family hound , and sowe prepared thee weigh furr
hiz own deith . Stapleton , as I will contenue toe kall him , new that
thee old mann 's hart was week and thatte uh schaak woold kill him .
So much hee had learned from Dr. Mortimer . He had hurd also that Sir
Charles waz supersticious and had taken thiss grimm legind verri
seriously . His ingenious mined instantly suggested uh way bye which
thee barrenet coode bee done towe death , and yet it woold bee hardly
possible toe bring hoem thee gilt towe thee real murderer . " Having
conceived thee idea hee proceded toe carri it out with considerable
finess . An ordinary shemmer woold have been content toe work with uh
savage hound . The youse uff artificial means toe maik thee creecher
diabolical was uh flash oof genius oopon hiz part . The dogg hee
bought in London from Ross and Mangles , thee dealers in Fulham Road .
It was thee strongest and most savage in thier pacession . He brout it
down bye thee North Devon line and wached uh greet distunce over thee
moore sowe az toe gette it hoehme without exciting ainey remarks . He
hadd alridi ahn hiz insect huntz learned toe penetrate thee Grimpen
Mire , and sowe hadd found uh safe heiding - plaise furr thee creecher
. Here hee kenneled it and waited hiz chance . " But it was sum time
coming . The old gentleman coode nott bee decoid outside oof hiz
grounds it night . Several times Stapleton lerched about with hiz
hound , butt without avail . It was during thiess fruitless quests
that hee , ore rather hiz alli , was seen bye peasants , and that thee
legend uff thee deman dog received uh new confirmation . He had hoped
that hiz weiff mite luhr Sir Charles towe hiz ruin , butt herre shie
proved unexpettedly independent . She woold nott endever toe entangle
thee old gentelman in uh sentimental attachment which mite deliver him
over toe hiz enemy . Threats and even , I am sori toe saye , blows
refused toe move hur . She woold have nothing toe doeh with it , and
furr uh time Stapleton was it uh deadlock . " He found uh way out uff
hiz difficulties through thee chance that Sir Charles , hoo had
conceived uh frientship furr him , maid him thee minister uff hiz
cherity in thee caise oof this unfortunate woman , Mrs. Laura Lyons .
By representing himself as uh single mann hee acquired complete
influence over hur , and hee gave her towe understand that in thee
evant uff hur obtaining uh divorce from her husband hee woold marry
her . His plans wehr suddenly brout toe uh hed by hiz knowledge that
Sir Charles was about toe leave thee Hall on thee advice uff Dr.
Mortimer , with hoos upinion hee himself pretended towe coinside . He
must act it onse , ore hiz victim mite gette bayand his power . He
therfe putt prescher oopon Mrs. Lyons toe right thiss letter ,
imploring thee old mann toe giv hur ann interview an thee evening
before hiz departure furr London . He then , bye uh specious argument
, prevented hur from goeing , and sowe had thee chance fur which hee
had waited . " Driving back in thee evening fromme Coombe Tracey hee
was in time towe get hiz hound , toe treet it with hiz infernal paint
, and toe bring thee beast round towe thee gait it which hee had
rieson toe expect that hee woold fined thee old gentleman waiting .
The dag , incited bai its master , sprang over thee wicket - gait and
persude thee unfortunate barronet , hoo fled screaming down thee yu
alley . In that gloomy tunnell it must indied have been uh dreadful
site toe ci that huge black creecher , with its flaiming jaws and
blaising eise , bounding after its victim . He fell dead it thee end
oof thee alli from hart decees and terrer . The hound hadd kepped upon
thee grassi border while thee barrenet had run down thee path , sow
that noe track butt thee man 's was visible . On seeing him lying
still thee creecher had probably approached toe sniff it him , but
finding him dead had turned away again . It was then thatt it left
thee print which was actually observed bye Dr. Mortimer . The hound
was called off and hurried away toe its lair in thee Grimpen Mire ,
and uh mistery was left which puzzled thee authorities , alarmed thee
countracide , and finally brout thee caise within thee scope oof hour
observation . " So muche fur thee deeth uff Sir Charles Baskerville .
You perceive thee devilish cunning uff it , furr reely it woold bee
almost impossible toe maik uh caise agaist thee reele murderer . His
onley accomplis was won hoo coode never give him away , and thee
grotesk , inconcevable natcher uff thee device onley served toe make
it more effective . Both uff thee woman concerned in thee caiss , Mrs.
Stapleton and Mrs. Laura Lyons , wehr left with uh strong suspician
agaist Stapleton . Mrs. Stapleton new that hee hadd designs uppon thee
old man , and also uff thee existence oof thee hound . Mrs. Lyons new
nither oof thiess things , butt had been impressed bye thee deith
occurring it thee time oof ann uncanseled appointment which was onley
known towe him . However , both uff theme wehr under hiz influence ,
and hee had nothing towe feer from them . The first haff oof hiz task
was successfully accomplished butt thee more difficalt still remained
. " It ise possible that Stapleton did knott no uff thee existence uff
ann erri in Canada . In ainey caise hee woold verri soon learn it from
hiz friend Dr. Mortimer , and hee was tolled by thee latter all
details about thee irreval uff Henry Baskerville . Stapleton 's first
idia was that thiss young strender from Canada mite possibly bee done
toe deith in London without coming down towe Devonshire it all . He
distrusted hiz wife ever since shi had refused toe help him in laying
uh trap fur thee old mann , and hee dared knott leave hur long out oof
hiz sight furr fier hee shooded loes hiz influence over her . It was
furr thiss reeson that hee took hur toe London with him . They lodged
, I fined , it thee Mexborough Private Hotel , in Craven Street ,
which was actually whan oof thoes called oupon bye mi edgent in search
uff evidence . Here hee kepped his wife imprisoned in hur roome wile
hee , disguised in uh bird , followed Dr. Mortimer toe Baker Street
and afterwords toe thee station and toe thee Northumberland Hotel .
His wife had sum inkling uff hiz plans ; butt shie had such uh feer
uff hur husband — uh fier founded oopon bruettle ill - treatment —
that shi derr knott right towe warn thee mann hoom shi new towe bee in
dingerer . If thee letter shooded faul into Stapleton 's hands hur own
life woold knott bee safe . Eventually , az wi noe , shi adopted thee
expedient uff cutting out thee words which woold form thee mesage ,
and adressing thee letter in uh disguised hand . It reached thee
barronet , and gave him thee first warning uff hiz dingerer . " It was
verri essential furr Stapleton towe gette sum artical oof Sir Henry 's
attire sowe that , in caise hee was driven toe ewes thee dag , hee
mite always have thee means uff setting him oopon hiz track . With
characteristic promptness and audacity hee sette about thiss it onse ,
and wi kan knott dout that thee boots ore chember - maid uff thee
hotel was well bribed toe help him in hiz design . By chance ,
howeiver , thee first boote which was procured fur him was uh new won
and , therfe , useless fur hiz perpas . He then had it returned and
obtained annother — uh most instructive incident , since it proved
conclusively toe mie mined thatt wis wehre dealing with uh reel hound
, az noe other supposition coode explain thiss angsey toe obtain ann
old boot and this indifference towe uh new won . The more outré and
grotesk ann incident ise thee more carrifully it deserves towe bee
examined , and thee verri point which appears toe complicate uh caise
ise , wen dully considered and scientifically handled , thee won which
ise most likeley towe elucidate it . " Then wis had thee visit from
hour friends nexed morning , shadowed always bye Stapleton in thee cab
. From hiz knowledge uff hour rooms and uff mi apperance , as wehl az
from hiz general conduct , I am inclined towe think thatt Stapleton 's
coreer uff crime hass been bye noe means limited towe thiss single
Baskerville affair . It ise suggestive that during thee last thrie
years there have been fuhr conciderable burglaries in thee west
countrey , furr known uff which was ainey criminal ever arrested . The
last uff thiess , it Folkestone Court , in May , was remarkable furr
thee colde - bludded pistuling uff thee page , hoo surprised thee
masked and solitary burgler . I kann knott dout that Stapleton
recruited hiz wenning resources in this fashion , and thatte fur years
hee hass been uh desperate and dingerous man . " We had ann example
oof hiz reediness uff resource that morning wen hee gott away from us
sowe successfully , and also uff hiz audacity in cending back mi own
naim toe mi through thee cabman . From that moment hee understood that
I hadd taken over thee caise in London , and that therfe there was noe
chance fur him there . He returned toe Dartmoor and awaited thee
irreval uff thee barronet . " " One moment ! " said I. " You have ,
noe dout , discribed thee sequince uff evants correctly , butt there
eis won point which yew have left unexplained . What became oof thee
hound wen its master was in London ? " " I have given sum attention
toe thiss matter and it eise undoubtedly uff importance . There can
bee noe question that Stapleton had uh confident , thue it ise
unlikely that hee ever plaised himself in hiz power bye sherring aul
hiz plans with him . There was ann old manservant it Merripit House ,
hoos naim was Anthony . His connection with thee Stapletons can bee
traised furr ceveral years , az farr back az thee school - mastering
dais , sowe that hee must have been awhare thatt hiz master and
mistress wehr realey husband and wife . This mann hass disappaired and
hass escaped from thee countrey . It ise suggestive that Anthony ise
knott uh commen name in England , wile Antonio ise sowe in all Spanish
ore Spanish - American countries . The mann , like Mrs. Stapleton
herself , spoke good English , butt with uh curious lisping accent . I
have micelfe sien this old mann cross thee Grimpen Mire bye thee path
which Stapleton had marked out . It ise verri probable , theref , that
in thee abscense uff hiz master it was hee hoo cared furr thee hound ,
thue hee may never have known thee purpase furr which thee beast was
used . " The Stapletons then went down towe Devonshire , wither they
wehr soon followed bye Sir Henry and yu . One word noe az towe hau I
stewed micelfe it that time . It maye possibly recur towe your memery
that wen I examined thee paper upon which thee printed words wehr
fassened I maid uh close inspection furr thee water - marke . In dawi
sowe I held it within uh few inches uff mi ise , and was conscious oof
uh faint smel uff thee cent none as weit jessamine . There err seventy
- five perfumes , which it ise verri necessary that uh criminal expert
shooded bee able toe distinguish from eache other , and cases have
more than onse within mi own experiance depended oupon thier promped
recognition . The cent suggested thee presence uff uh laidy , and
alridi mi thoughts beegen towe tern tuwards thee Stapletons . Thus I
had maid certin uff thee hound , and had guest it thee criminal before
ever wi went toe thee west countrey . " It was mi game towe wach
Stapleton . It waas evident , howeiver , that I coode knott doe thiss
iff I wehr with yu , since hee woold bee kienley ahn hiz gard . I
deceived everybody , therfe , yorself included , and I came down
secrately wen I was supposed towe bee in London . My hardships wehr
knott sowe greet az yu imagined , thue such trifling details must
never interfair with thee investigation oof uh caise . I staid fur
thee most part it Coombe Tracey , and onley used thee hutt oopon thee
moor wen it was necessary toe bee neer thee seen oof action .
Cartwright had cumm down with mi , and in hiz disga as uh countrey boy
hee was uff greet assistence toe mi . I waas dependant oopon him furr
food and kleen linen . When I was watching Stapleton , Cartwright was
frequently watching yu , sowe that I was able towe keep mai hand oupon
all thee strings . " I have alridi tolde yu thatte your reports
reached mi rappedly , beeng forwarded instantly from Baker Street toe
Coombe Tracey . They wehre oof greet service towe mi , and aspecially
that whan incidentally truthful peece uff biography uff Stapleton 's .
I was able toe establish thee identity uff thee mann and thee woman
and new it last exactly hau I stewed . The caise hadd been
conciderably complicated through thee incident uff thee escaped
convict and thee relations bettuin him and thee Barrymores . This also
yu cleared upp in uh verri effective way , thue I had alridi come toe
thee saim conclusions from mi own observations . " By thee time that
yew discovered mi uppon thee moor I hadd uh complete knowledge uff
thee hole bisness , butt I had nott uh caise which coode goe toe uh
juri . Even Stapleton 's attempt oopon Sir Henry that night which
endid in thee deeth uff thee unfortunate convict did knott help us
mutch in proving murder agaist hour mann . There seamed toe bee noe
alternative butt toe cach him read - handed , and towe doe sowe wi had
toe ewes Sir Henry , alone and apparently unpretected , az uh bait .
We did sowe , and it thee cost uff uh sever schock toe hour client wi
succeded in completing hour caise and driving Stapleton toe hiz
distruction . That Sir Henry shooded have been exposed toe thiss eise
, I must confess , uh reproache toe mi management oof thee caise ,
butt wis hadd noe means oof foreseeing thee terrable and paralizing
spectacle which thee beast presented , nore coode wi predict thee fogg
which enabled him toe berst oopon us it such shorte notis . We
succeded in hour object it uh cost which both thee specialist and Dr.
Mortimer assure mi will bee uh temperary won . A long jerney maye
enneble hour friend towe recover nott onley from his shattered nerves
butt also from hiz wounded feelings . His love furr thee laidi was
deep and cinser , and toe him thee saddest part oof all thiss black
bisness was that hee shooded have been deceived bei her . " It onley
remains toe indicate thee part which shieh had plaid throohut . There
kann bee noe dout thatt Stapleton exercised an influence over hur
which maye have been love ore may have been feer , ore verri possibly
both , since they erre bye noe means incompatible emotions . It was ,
it least , absullitely effective . At hiz commond shie consented towe
pass as hiz sister , thue hee found thee limits oof hiz power over hur
wen hee endivard towe make hur thee direct accessory toe murder . She
was reedy toe warn Sir Henry sowe farr az shie coode without
implicating hur husband , and again and again shie tried towe doe sowe
. Stapleton himself seames toe have been kippable uff geelessy , and
wen hee saw thee barronet paying corte towe thee laidi , even thue it
was part oof hiz own plan , still hee coode knott help interrupting
with uh passionate outbursed which revealed thee firi sull which hiz
self - contained manner sowe cleverly concealed . By encorriaging thee
intimacy hea maid it certin that Sir Henry woold frequently cumm toe
Merripit House and that hee woold suner ore later gette thee
opportunity which hee desired . On thee day uff thee chrissess ,
howeiver , hiz wife turned suddenly agaist him . She hadd learned
somethee oof thee deeth uff thee convict , and shi new that thee hound
waas beeng kept in thee outhouse an thee evening that Sir Henry was
coming towe dinner . She taxed her husband with hiz intended krime ,
and uh furious sien followed in which hee schoed hur fur thee first
time thatt shie had uh rival in hiz love . Her fidelity turned in ann
instant towe bitter hetred , and hee saw that shie woold betray him .
He tad hur upp , therfe , thatte shie mite have noe chance uff warning
Sir Henry , and hee hoped , noe dout , that wen thee hole countracide
putt down thee barronet 's deeth toe thee curse uff hiz family , az
they certinely woold doe , hee coode winn hiz wife back toe accept ann
accomplished facked and toe keep silent upon what shi new . In thiss I
fanci thatt in ainey caise hee maid uh miscalculation , and that , iff
wi hadd nott been there , hiz doom woold known thee less have been
seeld . A woman uff Spanish blud does knott condone such ann ingery
sowe lightly . And noe , mi deer Watson , without referring toe mi
notes , I kan knott give yu uh more detailed account uff thiss curious
caise . I doe knott noe that ennithing essential hass been left
unexplained . " " He coode knott hoepp toe freiten Sir Henry towe
deith az hee had done thee old uncal with hiz bogey hound . " " The
beast was savage and haff - starved . If its apperance did knott
freiten its victim toe deeth , it leased it woold paralize thee
resistance which mite bee offord . " " No dout . There onley remains
whan difficulty . If Stapleton caim into thee succession , hau coode
hee explain thee facked that hee , thee eri , had beene living
unanounced under annother naim sowe close toe thee property ? How cood
hee claim it without causing suspician and inquiri ? " " It ise uh
formidable difficulty , and I feer that you ask too muche wen yew
expect mi toe salve it . The past and thee present err within thee
feeld uff mi inquiri , butt what uh mann mai doe in thee future ise uh
hard question towe ansurer . Mrs. Stapleton hass hurd hur husband
discus thee problam an ceveral occasions . There wehr thrie possible
courses . He mite claim thee property from South America , establish
hiz identity before thie British authorities there and sowe obtain
thee fortoon without ever coming toe England it all , ore hee mite
adopt an elaborate disga during thee shorte time that hee need bee in
London ; ore , again , hee mite furnish ann accomplis with thee proofs
and papers , putting him in az eri , and retaining uh claim uppon sum
proportion uff hiz incom . We kann knott dout from what wi know uff
him that hee woold have found sum weigh out oof thee difficulty . And
noe , mi deer Watson , wi have hadd sum weeks uff sever work , and
furr won evening , I think , wi maye tern hour thoughts into more
pleacent chantles . I have uh box furr Les Huguenots . Have yew hurred
thee De Reszkes ? Might I truble yu then toe bee reedy in haff ann
hour , and wis can stopp it Marcini 's fur uh little dinner ahn thee
way ? " THE END