Chapter 1. Sherlock Holmes Sherlock Holmes, who was usually late in
the mornings, save upon those not infrequent occasions when he was up
all night, was seated at the breakfast table. I stood upon the hearth-
rug and picked up the stick which our visitor had left behind him the
night before. 'twas a fine, thick piece of wood, bulbous-headed, of
the sort which's known as a "Penang lawyer." Just under the head was a
broad silver band nearly an inch across. 'twas just such a stick as
the old-fashioned family practitioner used to carry—dignified, solid,
and reassuring.   "Well, Watson, what do you make of it?" Holmes was
sitting with his back to me, and I had given him no sign of my
occupation. I believe you've eyes in the back of your head."   "But,
tell me, Watson, what do you make of our visitor's stick? Since we've
been so unfortunate as to miss him and have no notion of his errand,
this accidental souvenir becomes of importance. Let me hear you
reconstruct the man by an examination of it."   "I think," said I,
following as far as I could the methods of my companion, "that
Mortimer is a successful, elderly medical man, well-esteemed since
those who know him give him this mark of their appreciation." said
Holmes. "Excellent!"   "I think also that the probability is in favour
of his being a country practitioner who's a great deal of his visiting
on foot." "Why so?" "Because this stick, though originally a handsome
one has been so knocked about that I can hardly imagine a town
practitioner carrying it.   "Perfectly sound!"   I should guess that
to be the Something Hunt, the local hunt to whose members he's
possibly given some surgical assistance, and which's made him a small
presentation in return."   "Really, Watson, you excel yourself," said
Holmes, pushing back his chair and lighting a cigarette. "I am bound
to say that in all the accounts which you've been so good as to give
of my own small achievements you've habitually underrated your own
abilities. Some people without possessing genius have a remarkable
power of stimulating it. I confess, my dear fellow, that I'm much in
your debt."   He'd never said as much before, and I must admit that
his words gave me keen pleasure, for I had often been piqued by his
indifference to my admiration and to the attempts which I had made to
give publicity to his methods. I was proud, too, to think that I had
so far mastered his system as to apply it in a way which earned his
approval. Then with an expression of interest he laid down his
cigarette, and carrying the cane to the window, he looked over it
again with a convex lens.   "Interesting, though elementary," said he
as he returned to his favourite corner of the settee. It gives us the
basis for several deductions."   I asked with some self-importance. "I
trust that there's nothing of consequence which I've overlooked?"   "I
am afraid, my dear Watson, that most of your conclusions were
erroneous. When I said that you stimulated me I meant, to be frank,
that in noting your fallacies I was occasionally guided towards the
truth. The man is certainly a country practitioner. And he walks a
good deal."   "Then I was right." "To that extent." "But that was
all." I'd suggest, for example, that a presentation to a doctor is
more likely to come from a hospital than from a hunt, and that when
the initials 'C.C.' are placed before that hospital the words 'Charing
Cross' naturally suggest themselves."   "You maybe right." And if we
take this as a working hypothesis we've a fresh basis from which to
start our construction of this unknown visitor."   does stand for
'Charing Cross Hospital,' what further inferences may we draw?"   "Do
none suggest themselves? You know my methods.   "I can only think of
the obvious conclusion that the man has practised in town before finna
the country." "I think that we might venture a little farther than
this. On what occasion would it be most probable that such a
presentation would be made? When would his friends unite to give him a
pledge of their good will? Obviously at the moment when Mortimer
withdrew from the service of the hospital to start a practice for
himself. We know there's been a presentation. We believe there's been
a change from a town hospital to a country practice. Is it, then,
stretching our inference too far to say that the presentation was for
the change?"   "It certainly seems probable." "Now, you'll observe
that he couldn't've been on the staff of the hospital, since only a
man well-established in a London practice could hold such a position,
and such a one wouldn't drift into the country. If he was in the
hospital and yet not on the staff he could only have been a house-
surgeon or a house-physician—little more than a senior student. And he
left five years ago—the date is on the stick. So your grave, middle-
aged family practitioner vanishes into thin air, my dear Watson, and
there emerges a young fellow under thirty, amiable, unambitious,
absent-minded, and the possessor of a favourite dog, which I should
describe roughly as being larger than a terrier and smaller than a
mastiff."   I laughed incredulously as Sherlock Holmes leaned back in
his settee and blew little wavering rings of smoke up to the ceiling.
"As to the latter part, I've no means of checking you," said I, "but
at least it isn't difficult to find out a few particulars about the
man's age and professional career." From my small medical shelf I took
down the Medical Directory and turned up the name. I read his record
aloud.   "Mortimer, James, M.R.C.S., 1882, Grimpen, Dartmoor, Devon.
House-surgeon, from 1882 to 1884, at Charing Cross Hospital. Winner of
the Jackson prize for Comparative Pathology, with essay entitled 'Is
Disease a Reversion?' Corresponding member of the Swedish Pathological
Society. Author of 'Some Freaks of Atavism' (Lancet 1882). (Journal of
Psychology, March, 1883). Medical Officer for the parishes of Grimpen,
Thorsley, and High Barrow."   "No mention of that local hunt, Watson,"
said Holmes with a mischievous smile, "but a country doctor, as you
astutely observed. As to the adjectives, I said, if I remember right,
amiable, unambitious, and absent-minded. It's my experience that it's
only an amiable man in this world who receives testimonials, only an
unambitious one who abandons a London career for the country, and only
an absent-minded one who leaves his stick and not his visiting-card
after waiting an hour in your room."   "And the dog?" "Has been in the
habit of carrying this stick behind his master. Being a heavy stick
the dog has held it tightly by the middle, and the marks of his teeth
are plainly visible. The dog's jaw, as shown in the space between
these marks, is too broad in my opinion for a terrier and not broad
enough for a mastiff.   He'd risen and paced the room as he spoke.
There was such a ring of conviction in his voice that I glanced up in
surprise.   "My dear fellow, how can you possibly be so sure of that?"
"For the simple reason that I see the dog himself on our door-step,
and there's the ring of its owner. Don't move, I beg you, Watson. He's
a professional brother of yours, and your presence maybe of assistance
to me. Now is the dramatic moment of fate, Watson, when you hear a
step upon the stair which's walking into your life, and you know not
whether for good or ill. What's James Mortimer, the man of science,
ask of Sherlock Holmes, the specialist in crime?   The appearance of
our visitor was a surprise to me, since I had expected a typical
country practitioner. He was a tall, thin man, with a long nose like a
beak, which jutted out between two keen, grey eyes, set closely
together and sparkling brightly from behind a pair of gold-rimmed
glasses. He was clad in a professional but rather slovenly fashion,
for his frock-coat was dingy and his trousers frayed. Though young,
his long back was already bowed, and he walked with a forward thrust
of his head and a general air of peering benevolence. As he entered
his eyes fell upon the stick in Holmes's hand, and he ran towards it
with an exclamation of joy. "I wasn't sure whether I had left it here
or in the Shipping Office. I'd not lose that stick for the world."
"A presentation, I see," said Holmes. "Yes, sir." "From Charing Cross
Hospital?" "From a few friends thereon the occasion of my marriage."
said Holmes, shaking his head.   Mortimer blinked through his glasses
in mild astonishment.   "Only that you've disarranged our little
deductions.   I married, and so left the hospital, and with it all
hopes of a consulting practice. 'twas necessary to make a home of my
own."   "Come, come, we aren't so far wrong, after all," said Holmes.
"Mister, sir, Mister—a humble M.R.C.S." "And a man of precise mind,
evidently." "A dabbler in science, Holmes, a picker up of shells on
the shores of the great unknown ocean.   "No, this's my friend Dr.
"Glad to meet you, sir. I've heard your name mentioned in connection
with that of your friend. I had hardly expected so dolichocephalic a
skull or such well-marked supra-orbital development. Would you've any
objection to my running my finger along your parietal fissure? A cast
of your skull, sir, until the original is available, would be an
ornament to any anthropological museum. It isn't my intention to be
fulsome, but I confess that I covet your skull."   Sherlock Holmes
waved our strange visitor into a chair. "You are an enthusiast in your
line of thought, I perceive, sir, as I'm in mine," said he. "I observe
from your forefinger that you make your own cigarettes.   He'd long,
quivering fingers as agile and restless as the antennæ of an insect.
Holmes was silent, but his little darting glances showed me the
interest which he took in our curious companion.   "No, sir, no;
though I'm happy to've had the opportunity of doing that as well. I
came to you, Holmes, because I recognized that I'm myself an
unpractical man and because I'm suddenly confronted with a most
serious and extraordinary problem.   May I inquire who's the honour to
be the first?" asked Holmes with some asperity.   "To the man of
precisely scientific mind the work of Monsieur Bertillon must always
appeal strongly." "Then had you not better consult him?" "I said, sir,
to the precisely scientific mind. But as a practical man of affairs
it's acknowledged that you stand alone.   "I think, Mortimer, you'd do
wisely if without more ado you'd kindly tell me plainly what the exact
nature of the problem is in which you demand my assistance."   Chapter
2. The Curse of the Baskervilles "I have in my pocket a manuscript,"
said James Mortimer. "I observed it as you entered the room," said
Holmes. "It is an old manuscript." "Early eighteenth century, unless
it's a forgery." "How can you say that, sir?" "You have presented an
inch or two of it to my examination all the time that you've been
talking. It'd be a poor expert who couldn't give the date of a
document within a decade or so. You may possibly have read my little
monograph upon the subject.   "The exact date is 1742." "This family
paper was committed to my care by Charles Baskerville, whose sudden
and tragic death some three months ago created so much excitement in
Devonshire. I may say that I was his personal friend as well as his
medical attendant. He was a strong-minded man, sir, shrewd, practical,
and as unimaginative as I'm myself. Yet he took this document
seriously, and his mind was prepared for just such an end as did
eventually overtake him."   Holmes stretched out his hand for the
manuscript and flattened it upon his knee. "You will observe, Watson,
the alternative use of the long s and the short.   At the head was
written: "Baskerville Hall," and below in large, scrawling figures:
"1742."   "It appears to be a statement of some sort." "Yes, it's a
statement of a certain legend which runs in the Baskerville family."
"But I understand that it's something more modern and practical upon
which you wish to consult me?" A most practical, pressing matter,
which must be decided within twenty-four hours. But the manuscript is
short and is intimately connected with the affair. With your
permission I'll read it to you."   Mortimer turned the manuscript to
the light and read in a high, cracking voice the following curious,
old-world narrative:   And I would've you believe, my sons, that the
same Justice which punishes sin may also most graciously forgive it,
and that no ban is so heavy but that by prayer and repentance it maybe
removed. Learn then from this story not to fear the fruits of the
past, but rather to be circumspect in the future, that those foul
passions whereby our family has suffered so grievously mayn't again be
loosed to our undoing.   "Know then that in the time of the Great
Rebellion (the history of which by the learned Clarendon I most
earnestly commend to your attention) this Manor of Baskerville was
held by Hugo of that name, nor can it be gainsaid that he was a most
wild, profane, and godless man. This, in truth, his neighbours
might've pardoned, seeing that saints have never flourished in those
parts, but there was in him a certain wanton and cruel humour which
made his name a by-word through the West. It chanced that this Hugo
came to love (if, indeed, so dark a passion maybe known under so
bright a name) the daughter of a yeoman who held lands near the
Baskerville estate. So it came to pass that one Michaelmas this Hugo,
with five or six of his idle and wicked companions, stole down upon
the farm and carried off the maiden, her father and brothers being
from home, as he well knew. When they'd brought her to the Hall the
maiden was placed in an upper chamber, while Hugo and his friends sat
down to a long carouse, as was their nightly custom. Now, the poor
lass upstairs was like to've her wits turned at the singing and
shouting and terrible oaths which came up to her from below, for they
say that the words used by Hugo Baskerville, when he was in wine, were
such as might blast the man who said them. At last in the stress of
her fear she did that which might've daunted the bravest or most
active man, for by the aid of the growth of ivy which covered (and
still covers) the south wall she came down from under the eaves, and
so homeward across the moor, there being three leagues betwixt the
Hall and her father's farm.   "It chanced that some little time later
Hugo left his guests to carry food and drink—with other worse things,
perchance—to his captive, and so found the cage empty and the bird
escaped. Then, as it'd seem, he became as one that hath a devil, for,
rushing down the stairs into the dining-hall, he sprang upon the great
table, flagons and trenchers flying before him, and he cried aloud
before all the company that he'd that night render his body and soul
to the Powers of Evil if he might but overtake the wench. And while
the revellers stood aghast at the fury of the man, one more wicked or,
it may be, more drunken than the rest, cried out that they should put
the hounds upon her.   "Now, for some space the revellers stood agape,
unable to understand all that had been done in such haste. But anon
their bemused wits awoke to the nature of the deed which was like to
be done upon the moorlands. But at length some sense came back to
their crazed minds, and the whole of them, thirteen in number, took
horse and started in pursuit. The moon shone clear above them, and
they rode swiftly abreast, taking that course which the maid must
needs have taken if she were to reach her own home.   "They had gone a
mile or two when they passed one of the night shepherds upon the
moorlands, and they cried to him to know if he'd seen the hunt. And
the man, as the story goes, was so crazed with fear that he could
scarce speak, but at last he said that he'd indeed seen the unhappy
maiden, with the hounds upon her track. 'But I've seen more than
that,' said he, 'for Hugo Baskerville passed me upon his black mare,
and there ran mute behind him such a hound of hell as God forbid
should ever be at my heels.' So the drunken squires cursed the
shepherd and rode onward. But soon their skins turned cold, for there
came a galloping across the moor, and the black mare, dabbled with
white froth, went past with trailing bridle and empty saddle. Then the
revellers rode close together, for a great fear was on them, but they
still followed over the moor, though each, had he been alone, would've
been right glad to've turned his horse's head. These, though known for
their valour and their breed, were whimpering in a cluster at the head
of a deep dip or goyal, as we call it, upon the moor, some slinking
away and some, with starting hackles and staring eyes, gazing down the
narrow valley before them.   The most of them would by no means
advance, but three of them, the boldest, or it maybe the most drunken,
rode forward down the goyal. Now, it opened into a broad space in
which stood two of those great stones, still to be seen there, which
were set by certain forgotten peoples in the days of old. The moon was
shining bright upon the clearing, and therein the centre lay the
unhappy maid where she had fallen, dead of fear and of fatigue. But
'twasn't the sight of her body, nor yet was it that of the body of
Hugo Baskerville lying near her, which raised the hair upon the heads
of these three dare-devil roysterers, but 'twas that, standing over
Hugo, and plucking at his throat, there stood a foul thing, a great,
black beast, shaped like a hound, yet larger than any hound that ever
mortal eye has rested upon. And even as they looked the thing tore the
throat out of Hugo Baskerville, on which, as it turned its blazing
eyes and dripping jaws upon them, the three shrieked with fear and
rode for dear life, still screaming, across the moor. One, it's said,
died that night of what he'd seen, and the other twain were but broken
men for the rest of their days.   "Such is the tale, my sons, of the
coming of the hound which's said to've plagued the family so sorely
ever since. Nor can it be denied that many of the family have been
unhappy in their deaths, which have been sudden, bloody, and
mysterious. Yet may we shelter ourselves in the infinite goodness of
Providence, which wouldn't forever punish the innocent beyond that
third or fourth generation which's threatened in Holy Writ. To that
Providence, my sons, I hereby commend you, and I counsel you by way of
caution to forbear from crossing the moor in those dark hours when the
powers of evil are exalted.   "[This from Hugo Baskerville to his sons
Rodger and John, with instructions that they say nothing thereof to
their sister Elizabeth.]" When Mortimer had finished reading this
singular narrative he pushed his spectacles upon his forehead and
stared across at Sherlock Holmes.   "Well?" said he. "Do you not find
it interesting?" "To a collector of fairy tales." Mortimer drew a
folded newspaper out of his pocket. This's the Devon County Chronicle
of May 14th of this year. It's a short account of the facts elicited
at the death of Charles Baskerville which occurred a few days before
that date."   My friend leaned a little forward and his expression
became intent.   "The recent sudden death of Charles Baskerville,
whose name has been mentioned as the probable Liberal candidate for
Mid-Devon at the next election, has cast a gloom over the county.
Though Charles had resided at Baskerville Hall for a comparatively
short period his amiability of character and extreme generosity had
won the affection and respect of all who'd been brought into contact
with him. In these days of nouveaux riches it's refreshing to find a
case where the scion of an old county family which's fallen upon evil
days is able to make his own fortune and to bring it back with him to
restore the fallen grandeur of his line. Charles, as is well known,
made large sums of money in South African speculation. It's only two
years since he took up his residence at Baskerville Hall, and it's
common talk how large were those schemes of reconstruction and
improvement which have been interrupted by his death. Being himself
childless, 'twas his openly expressed desire that the whole
countryside should, within his own lifetime, profit by his good
fortune, and many will have personal reasons for bewailing his
untimely end. His generous donations to local and county charities
have been frequently chronicled in these columns.   "The circumstances
connected with the death of Charles cannot be said to've been entirely
cleared up by the inquest, but at least enough has been done to
dispose of those rumours to which local superstition has given rise.
Charles was a widower, and a man who maybe said to've been in some
ways of an eccentric habit of mind. In spite of his considerable
wealth he was simple in his personal tastes, and his indoor servants
at Baskerville Hall consisted of a married couple named Barrymore, the
husband acting as butler and the wife as housekeeper. Their evidence,
corroborated by that of several friends, tends to show that Charles's
health has for sometime been impaired, and points especially to some
affection of the heart, manifesting itself in changes of colour,
breathlessness, and acute attacks of nervous depression. James
Mortimer, the friend and medical attendant of the deceased, has given
evidence to the same effect.   "The facts of the case are simple.
Charles Baskerville was in the habit every night before finna bed of
walking down the famous yew alley of Baskerville Hall. The evidence of
the Barrymores shows that this had been his custom. On the fourth of
May Charles had declared his intention of starting next day for
London, and had ordered Barrymore to prepare his luggage. That night
he went out as usual for his nocturnal walk, in which he was in the
habit of smoking a cigar. At twelve o'clock Barrymore, finding the
hall door still open, became alarmed, and, lighting a lantern, went in
search of his master. The day had been wet, and Charles's footmarks
were easily traced down the alley. Halfway down this walk there's a
gate which leads out onto the moor. There were indications that
Charles had stood for some little time here. He then proceeded down
the alley, and 'twas at the far end of it that his body was
discovered. One fact which hasn't been explained is the statement of
Barrymore that his master's footprints altered their character from
the time that he passed the moor-gate, and that he appeared from
thence onward to've been walking upon his toes. One Murphy, a gipsy
horse-dealer, was on the moor at no great distance at the time, but he
appears by his own confession to've been the worse for drink. He
declares that he heard cries but is unable to state from what
direction they came. No signs of violence were to be discovered upon
Charles's person, and though the doctor's evidence pointed to an
almost incredible facial distortion—so great that Mortimer refused at
first to believe that 'twas indeed his friend and patient who lay
before him—it was explained that that's a symptom which isn't unusual
in cases of dyspnœa and death from cardiac exhaustion. This
explanation was borne out by the post-mortem examination, which showed
long-standing organic disease, and the coroner's jury returned a
verdict in accordance with the medical evidence. It's well that this's
so, for it's obviously of the utmost importance that Charles's heir
should settle at the Hall and continue the good work which's been so
sadly interrupted. Had the prosaic finding of the coroner not finally
put an end to the romantic stories which have been whispered in
connection with the affair, it might've been difficult to find a
tenant for Baskerville Hall. It's understood that the next of kin is
Henry Baskerville, if he be still alive, the son of Charles
Baskerville's younger brother. The young man when last heard of was in
America, and inquiries are being instituted with a view to informing
him of his good fortune."   "Those are the public facts, Holmes, in
connection with the death of Sir Charles Baskerville."   "I must thank
you," said Sherlock Holmes, "for calling my attention to a case which
certainly presents some features of interest. I had observed some
newspaper comment at the time, but I was exceedingly preoccupied by
that little affair of the Vatican cameos, and in my anxiety to oblige
the Pope I lost touch with several interesting English cases.   "It
does." He leaned back, put his finger-tips together, and assumed his
most impassive and judicial expression.   "In doing so," said
Mortimer, who'd begun to show signs of some strong emotion, "I am
telling that which I haven't confided to anyone. My motive for
withholding it from the coroner's inquiry is that a man of science
shrinks from placing himself in the public position of seeming to
indorse a popular superstition. I had the further motive that
Baskerville Hall, as the paper says, would certainly remain untenanted
if anything were done to increase its already rather grim reputation.
For this reason I saw a good deal of Sir Charles Baskerville. With the
exception of Frankland, of Lafter Hall, and Stapleton, the naturalist,
there're no other men of education within many miles. Sir Charles was
a retiring man, but the chance of his illness brought us together, and
a community of interests in science kept us so. He'd brought back much
scientific information from South Africa, and many a charming evening
we've spent together discussing the comparative anatomy of the Bushman
and the Hottentot.   "Within the last few months it became
increasingly plain to me that Sir Charles's nervous system was
strained to the breaking point. He'd taken this legend which I've read
you exceedingly to heart—so much so that, although he'd walk in his
own grounds, nothing would induce him to go out upon the moor at
night. Incredible as it may appear to you, Holmes, he was honestly
convinced that a dreadful fate overhung his family, and certainly the
records which he was able to give of his ancestors weren't
encouraging. The idea of some ghastly presence constantly haunted him,
and on more than one occasion he's asked me whether I had on my
medical journeys at night ever seen any strange creature or heard the
baying of a hound.   "I can well remember driving up to his house in
the evening some three weeks before the fatal event. I had descended
from my gig and was standing in front of him, when I saw his eyes fix
themselves over my shoulder and stare past me with an expression of
the most dreadful horror. I whisked round and had just time to catch a
glimpse of something which I took to be a large black calf passing at
the head of the drive. So excited and alarmed was he that I was
compelled to go down to the spot where the animal had been and look
around for it. 'twas gone, however, and the incident appeared to make
the worst impression upon his mind. I stayed with him all the evening,
and 'twas on that occasion, to explain the emotion which he'd shown,
that he confided to my keeping that narrative which I read to you when
first I came. I mention this small episode because it assumes some
importance in view of the tragedy which followed, but I was convinced
at the time that the matter was entirely trivial and that his
excitement had no justification.   "It was at my advice that Sir
Charles was about to go to London. His heart was, I knew, affected,
and the constant anxiety in which he lived, however chimerical the
cause of it might be, was evidently having a serious effect upon his
health. I thought that a few months among the distractions of town
would send him back a new man. Stapleton, a mutual friend who was much
concerned at his state of health, was of the same opinion.   "On the
night of Sir Charles's death Barrymore the butler, who made the
discovery, sent Perkins the groom on horseback to me, and as I was
sitting up late I was able to reach Baskerville Hall within an hour of
the event. I checked and corroborated all the facts which were
mentioned at the inquest. I followed the footsteps down the yew alley,
I saw the spot at the moor-gate where he seemed to've waited, I
remarked the change in the shape of the prints after that point, I
noted that there were no other footsteps save those of Barrymore on
the soft gravel, and finally I carefully examined the body, which
hadn't been touched until my arrival. Sir Charles lay on his face, his
arms out, his fingers dug into the ground, and his features convulsed
with some strong emotion to such an extent that I could hardly have
sworn to his identity. There was certainly no physical injury of any
kind. But one false statement was made by Barrymore at the inquest. He
said that there were no traces upon the ground round the body. But I
did—some little distance off, but fresh and clear."   "Footprints?"
"Footprints." "A man's or a woman's?" Mortimer looked strangely at us
for an instant, and his voice sank almost to a whisper as he answered.
"Mr. Holmes, they're the footprints of a gigantic hound!" Chapter 3.
The Problem There was a thrill in the doctor's voice which showed that
he was himself deeply moved by that which he told us. Holmes leaned
forward in his excitement and his eyes had the hard, dry glitter which
shot from them when he was keenly interested.   "You saw this?" "As
clearly as I see you." "And you said nothing?" "What was the use?"
"How was it that no one else saw it?" "The marks were some twenty
yards from the body and no one gave them a thought.   "There are many
sheep-dogs on the moor?" "No doubt, but this was no sheep-dog." "You
say 'twas large?" "Enormous." "But it hadn't approached the body?"
"No." "What sort of night was it?' "Damp and raw." "But not actually
raining?" "No." "What is the alley like?" "There are two lines of old
yew hedge, twelve feet high and impenetrable.   "Is there anything
between the hedges and the walk?" "Yes, there's a strip of grass about
six feet broad on either side." "I understand that the yew hedge is
penetrated at one point by a gate?" "Yes, the wicket-gate which leads
onto the moor." "Is there any other opening?" "None." "So that to
reach the yew alley one either has to comedown it from the house or
else to enter it by the moor-gate?" "There is an exit through a
summer-house at the far end." "Had Sir Charles reached this?" "No; he
lay about fifty yards from it." "Now, tell me, Mortimer—and this's
important—the marks which you saw were on the path and not on the
grass?" "No marks could show on the grass." "Were they on the same
side of the path as the moor-gate?" "Yes; they're on the edge of the
path on the same side as the moor-gate." "You interest me exceedingly.
Another point.   "Closed and padlocked." "How high was it?" "About
four feet high." "Then anyone could've got over it?" "Yes." "And what
marks did you see by the wicket-gate?" "None in particular." "Good
heaven!   "Yes, I examined, myself." "And found nothing?" Sir Charles
had evidently stood therefor five or ten minutes."   "How do you know
that?" "Because the ash had twice dropped from his cigar." This's a
colleague, Watson, after our own heart. But the marks?"   "He had left
his own marks allover that small patch of gravel.   Sherlock Holmes
struck his hand against his knee with an impatient gesture. he cried.
"It is evidently a case of extraordinary interest, and one which
presented immense opportunities to the scientific expert. That gravel
page upon which I might've read so much has been long ere this smudged
by the rain and defaced by the clogs of curious peasants. Oh,
Mortimer, Dr. Mortimer, to think that you shouldn't've called me in!
You've indeed much to answer for."   "I couldn't call you in, Holmes,
without disclosing these facts to the world, and I've already given my
reasons for not wishing to do so.   "Why do you hesitate?" "There is a
realm in which the most acute and most experienced of detectives is
helpless." "You mean that the thing is supernatural?" "I didn't
positively say so." "No, but you evidently think it." "Since the
tragedy, Holmes, there have come to my ears several incidents which
are hard to reconcile with the settled order of Nature." "For
example?" "I find that before the terrible event occurred several
people had seen a creature upon the moor which corresponds with this
Baskerville demon, and which couldn't possibly be any animal known to
science. I've cross-examined these men, one of them a hard-headed
countryman, one a farrier, and one a moorland farmer, who all tell the
same story of this dreadful apparition, exactly corresponding to the
hell-hound of the legend. I assure you that there's a reign of terror
in the district, and that it's a hardy man who'll cross the moor at
night."   "And you, a trained man of science, believe it to be
supernatural?" "I don't know what to believe." Holmes shrugged his
shoulders. "I have hitherto confined my investigations to this world,"
said he. Yet you must admit that the footmark is material."   "The
original hound was material enough to tug a man's throat out, and yet
he was diabolical as well." "I see that you've quite gone over to the
supernaturalists. If you hold these views, why have you come to
consult me at all? You tell me in the same breath that it's useless to
investigate Sir Charles's death, and that you desire me to do it."
"I didn't say that I desired you to do it." "Then, how can I assist
you?" "By advising me as to what I should do with Sir Henry
Baskerville, who arrives at Waterloo Station"—Dr.   "He being the
heir?" On the death of Sir Charles we inquired for this young
gentleman and found that he'd been farming in Canada. From the
accounts which have reached us he's an excellent fellow in every way.
I speak now not as a medical man but as a trustee and executor of Sir
Charles's will."   "There is no other claimant, I presume?" The only
other kinsman whom we've been able to trace was Rodger Baskerville,
the youngest of three brothers of whom poor Sir Charles was the elder.
The second brother, who died young, is the father of this lad Henry.
The third, Rodger, was the black sheep of the family. He came of the
old masterful Baskerville strain and was the image, they tell me, of
the family picture of old Hugo. He made England too hot to hold him,
fled to Central America, and died therein 1876 of yellow fever. Henry
is the last of the Baskervilles. In one hour and five minutes I meet
him at Waterloo Station. I've had a wire that he arrived at
Southampton this morning. Now, Holmes, what would you advise me to do
with him?"   "Why should he not go to the home of his fathers?" And
yet, consider that every Baskerville who goes there meets with an evil
fate. I feel sure that if Sir Charles could've spoken with me before
his death he'd have warned me against bringing this, the last of the
old race, and the heir to great wealth, to that deadly place. And yet
it cannot be denied that the prosperity of the whole poor, bleak
countryside depends upon his presence. All the good work which's been
done by Sir Charles will crash to the ground if there's no tenant of
the Hall. I fear lest I should be swayed too much by my own obvious
interest in the matter, and that's why I bring the case before you and
ask for your advice."   Holmes considered for a little time. "In your
opinion there's a diabolical agency which makes Dartmoor an unsafe
abode for a Baskerville—that is your opinion?"   "At least I might go
the length of saying that there's some evidence that this maybe so."
But surely, if your supernatural theory be correct, it could work the
young man evil in London as easily as in Devonshire. A devil with
merely local powers like a parish vestry would be too inconceivable a
thing."   "You put the matter more flippantly, Holmes, than you'd
probably do if you were brought into personal contact with these
things. Your advice, then, as I understand it, is that the young man
will be as safe in Devonshire as in London. He comes in fifty minutes.
"I recommend, sir, that you take a cab, call off your spaniel who's
scratching at my front door, and proceed to Waterloo to meet Sir Henry
Baskerville." "And then?" "And then you'll say nothing to him at all
until I've made up my mind about the matter." "How long will it take
you to make up your mind?" At ten o'clock tomorrow, Dr. Mortimer, I'll
be much obliged to you if you'll call upon me here, and it'll be of
help to me in my plans for the future if you'll bring Sir Henry
Baskerville with you."   Holmes." He scribbled the appointment on his
shirt-cuff and hurried off in his strange, peering, absent-minded
fashion. Holmes stopped him at the head of the stair.   You say that
before Sir Charles Baskerville's death several people saw this
apparition upon the moor?"   "Three people did." "Did any see it
after?" "I haven't heard of any." "Thank you. Good-morning." Holmes
returned to his seat with that quiet look of inward satisfaction which
meant that he'd a congenial task before him. "Going out, Watson?"
"Unless I can help you." "No, my dear fellow, it's at the hour of
action that I turn to you for aid. But this's splendid, really unique
from some points of view. When you pass Bradley's, would you ask him
to send up a pound of the strongest shag tobacco? It'd be as well if
you could make it convenient not to return before evening. Then I
should be glad to compare impressions as to this most interesting
problem which's been submitted to us this morning."   I knew that
seclusion and solitude were necessary for my friend in those hours of
intense mental concentration during which he weighed every particle of
evidence, constructed alternative theories, balanced one against the
other, and made up his mind as to which points were essential and
which immaterial. I therefore spent the day at my club and didn't
return to Baker Street until evening.   My first impression as I
opened the door was that a fire had broken out, for the room was so
filled with smoke that the light of the lamp upon the table was
blurred by it. As I entered, however, my fears were set at rest, for
'twas the acrid fumes of strong coarse tobacco which took me by the
throat and set me coughing. Through the haze I had a vague vision of
Holmes in his dressing-gown coiled up in an armchair with his black
clay pipe between his lips.   "Caught cold, Watson?"   "No, it's this
poisonous atmosphere." "I suppose it's pretty thick, now that you
mention it." "Thick!   You've been at your club all day, I perceive."
"My dear Holmes!" "Am I right?" "Certainly, but how?" He laughed at my
bewildered expression. "There is a delightful freshness about you,
Watson, which makes it a pleasure to exercise any small powers which I
possess at your expense. A gentleman goes forth on a showery and miry
day. He returns immaculate in the evening with the gloss still on his
hat and his boots. He's been a fixture therefore all day. He's not a
man with intimate friends. Is it not obvious?"   "Well, it's rather
obvious." "The world is full of obvious things which nobody by any
chance ever observes.   "A fixture also." "On the contrary, I've been
to Devonshire." "In spirit?" My body has remained in this armchair and
has, I regret to observe, consumed in my absence two large pots of
coffee and an incredible amount of tobacco. After you left I sent down
to Stamford's for the Ordnance map of this portion of the moor, and my
spirit has hovered over it all day. I flatter myself that I could find
my way about."   "A large-scale map, I presume?" "Very large." He
unrolled one section and held it over his knee. That's Baskerville
Hall in the middle."   "With a wood round it?" I fancy the yew alley,
though not marked under that name, must stretch along this line, with
the moor, as you perceive, upon the right of it. This small clump of
buildings here is the hamlet of Grimpen, where our friend Dr. Mortimer
has his headquarters. Within a radius of five miles there are, as you
see, only a few scattered dwellings. Here is Lafter Hall, which was
mentioned in the narrative. There's a house indicated here which maybe
the residence of the naturalist—Stapleton, if I remember right, was
his name. Here are two moorland farmhouses, High Tor and Foulmire.
Then fourteen miles away the great convict prison of Princetown.
Between and around these scattered points extends the desolate,
lifeless moor. This, then, is the stage upon which tragedy has been
played, and upon which we may help to play it again."   "It must be a
wild place." If the devil did desire to've a hand in the affairs of
men—"   "Then you're yourself inclining to the supernatural
explanation." "The devil's agents maybe of flesh and blood, may they
not? There're two questions waiting for us at the outset. Of course,
if Dr. Mortimer's surmise should be correct, and we're dealing with
forces outside the ordinary laws of Nature, there's an end of our
investigation. But we're bound to exhaust all other hypotheses before
falling back upon this one. I think we'll shut that window again, if
you don't mind. It's a singular thing, but I find that a concentrated
atmosphere helps a concentration of thought. I haven't pushed it to
the length of getting into a box to think, but that's the logical
outcome of my convictions. Have you turned the case over in your
mind?"   "Yes, I've thought a good deal of it in the day." "What do
you make of it?" "It is very bewildering." "It has certainly a
character of its own. There're points of distinction about it. That
change in the footprints, for example.   "Mortimer said that the man
had walked on tiptoe down that portion of the alley." Why should a man
walk on tiptoe down the alley?"   "What then?" "He was running,
Watson—running desperately, running for his life, running until he
burst his heart—and fell dead upon his face." "Running from what?"
There're indications that the man was crazed with fear before ever he
began to run."   "How can you say that?" "I am presuming that the
cause of his fears came to him across the moor. If that were so, and
it seems most probable, only a man who'd lost his wits would've run
from the house instead of towards it. If the gipsy's evidence maybe
taken as true, he ran with cries for help in the direction where help
was least likely to be.   "You think that he was waiting for someone?"
We can understand his taking an evening stroll, but the ground was
damp and the night inclement. Is it natural that he should stand for
five or ten minutes, as Dr. Mortimer, with more practical sense than I
should've given him credit for, deduced from the cigar ash?"   "But he
went out every evening." "I think it unlikely that he waited at the
moor-gate every evening. On the contrary, the evidence is that he
avoided the moor. That night he waited there. 'twas the night before
he made his departure for London. The thing takes shape, Watson. Might
I ask you to hand me my violin, and we'll postpone all further thought
upon this business until we've had the advantage of meeting Dr.
Mortimer and Sir Henry Baskerville in the morning."   Chapter 4. Sir
Henry Baskerville Our clients were punctual to their appointment, for
the clock had just struck ten when Dr. Mortimer was shown up, followed
by the young baronet. The latter was a small, alert, dark-eyed man
about thirty years of age, very sturdily built, with thick black
eyebrows and a strong, pugnacious face. He wore a ruddy-tinted tweed
suit and had the weather-beaten appearance of one who's spent most of
his time in the open air, and yet there was something in his steady
eye and the quiet assurance of his bearing which indicated the
gentleman.   "This is Sir Henry Baskerville," said Dr. Mortimer. "Why,
yes," said he, "and the strange thing is, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, that if
my friend here hadn't proposed coming round to you this morning I
should've come on my own account.   Do I understand you to say that
you've yourself had some remarkable experience since you arrived in
London?"   "Nothing of much importance, Mr. Holmes. 'twas this letter,
if you can call it a letter, which reached me this morning."   'twas
of common quality, greyish in colour. The address, "Sir Henry
Baskerville, Northumberland Hotel," was printed in rough characters;
the post-mark "Charing Cross," and the date of posting the preceding
evening.   asked Holmes, glancing keenly across at our visitor.   We
only decided after I met Dr. Mortimer."   "But Dr. Mortimer was no
doubt already stopping there?" "No, I had been staying with a friend,"
said the doctor. "There was no possible indication that we intended to
go to this hotel." Someone seems to be very deeply interested in your
movements." Out of the envelope he took a half-sheet of foolscap paper
folded into four. This he opened and spread flat upon the table.
Across the middle of it a single sentence had been formed by the
expedient of pasting printed words upon it. It ran:   As you value
your life or your reason keep away from the moor. The word "moor" only
was printed in ink. "Now," said Sir Henry Baskerville, "perhaps you'll
tell me, Mr. Holmes, what in thunder is the meaning of that, and who
it's that takes so much interest in my affairs?" You must allow that
there's nothing supernatural about this, at any rate?"   "No, sir, but
it might very well come from someone who was convinced that the
business is supernatural." asked Sir Henry sharply. "It seems to me
that all you gentlemen know a great deal more than I do about my own
affairs."   "You shall share our knowledge before you leave this room,
Sir Henry. I promise you that," said Sherlock Holmes. "We will confine
ourselves for the present with your permission to this very
interesting document, which must've been put together and posted
yesterday evening.   "It is herein the corner." "Might I trouble you
for it—the inside page, please, with the leading articles?" He glanced
swiftly over it, running his eyes up and down the columns. "Capital
article this on free trade.   'You maybe cajoled into imagining that
your own special trade or your own industry will be encouraged by a
protective tariff, but it stands to reason that such legislation must
in the long run keep away wealth from the country, diminish the value
of our imports, and lower the general conditions of life in this
island.' cried Holmes in high glee, rubbing his hands together with
satisfaction. "Don't you think that's an admirable sentiment?"   Dr.
Mortimer looked at Holmes with an air of professional interest, and
Sir Henry Baskerville turned a pair of puzzled dark eyes upon me. "I
don't know much about the tariff and things of that kind," said he,
"but it seems to me we've got a bit off the trail so far as that note
is concerned." Watson here knows more about my methods than you do,
but I fear that even he hasn't quite grasped the significance of this
sentence."   "No, I confess that I see no connection." "And yet, my
dear Watson, there's so very close a connection that the one is
extracted out of the other. Don't you see now whence these words have
been taken?"   Well, if that isn't smart!" cried Sir Henry.   "If any
possible doubt remained it's settled by the fact that 'keep away' and
'from the' are cut out in one piece." "Well, now—so it is!" "Really,
Mr. Holmes, this exceeds anything which I could've imagined," said Dr.
Mortimer, gazing at my friend in amazement. "I could understand anyone
saying that the words were from a newspaper; but that you should name
which, and add that it came from the leading article, is really one of
the most remarkable things which I've ever known.   "I presume,
Doctor, that you could tell the skull of a negro from that of an
Esquimau?" "Most certainly." "But how?" "Because that's my special
hobby. The supra-orbital crest, the facial angle, the maxillary curve,
the—"   "But this's my special hobby, and the differences are equally
obvious. There's as much difference to my eyes between the leaded
bourgeois type of a Times article and the slovenly print of an evening
half-penny paper as there could be between your negro and your
Esquimau. The detection of types is one of the most elementary
branches of knowledge to the special expert in crime, though I confess
that once when I was very young I confused the Leeds Mercury with the
Western Morning News. But a Times leader is entirely distinctive, and
these words could've been taken from nothing else.   "So far as I can
follow you, then, Mr. Holmes," said Sir Henry Baskerville, "someone
cut out this message with a scissors—" "You can see that 'twas a very
short-bladed scissors, since the cutter had to take two snips over
'keep away.'"   Someone, then, cut out the message with a pair of
short-bladed scissors, pasted it with paste—"   "Gum," said Holmes.
"With gum onto the paper.   The other words were all simple and might
be found in any issue, but 'moor' would be less common."   Have you
read anything else in this message, Mr. Holmes?"   "There are a few
indications, and yet the utmost pains have been taken to remove all
clues. The address, you observe is printed in rough characters. But
the Times is a paper which's seldom found in any hands but those of
the highly educated. We may take it, therefore, that the letter was
composed by an educated man who wished to pose as an uneducated one,
and his effort to conceal his own writing suggests that that writing
might be known, or come to be known, by you. Again, you'll observe
that the words aren't gummed on in an accurate line, but that some are
much higher than others. 'Life,' for example is quite out of its
proper place. That may point to carelessness or it may point to
agitation and hurry upon the part of the cutter. On the whole I
incline to the latter view, since the matter was evidently important,
and it is unlikely that the composer of such a letter would be
careless. If he were in a hurry it opens up the interesting question
why he should be in a hurry, since any letter posted up to early
morning would reach Sir Henry before he'd leave his hotel.   "We are
coming now rather into the region of guesswork," said Dr. Mortimer.
It's the scientific use of the imagination, but we've always some
material basis on which to start our speculation. Now, you'd call it a
guess, no doubt, but I'm almost certain that this address has been
written in a hotel."   "How in the world can you say that?" "If you
examine it carefully you'll see that both the pen and the ink have
given the writer trouble. The pen has spluttered twice in a single
word and has run dry three times in a short address, showing that
there was very little ink in the bottle. Now, a private pen or ink-
bottle is seldom allowed to be in such a state, and the combination of
the two must be quite rare. But you know the hotel ink and the hotel
pen, where it is rare to get anything else. Yes, I've very little
hesitation in saying that could we examine the waste-paper baskets of
the hotels around Charing Cross until we found the remains of the
mutilated Times leader we could lay our hands straight upon the person
who sent this singular message. Halloa! Halloa!   He was carefully
examining the foolscap, upon which the words were pasted, holding it
only an inch or two from his eyes. "Well?" "It is a blank half-sheet
of paper, without even a water-mark upon it. I think we've drawn as
much as we can from this curious letter; and now, Sir Henry, has
anything else of interest happened to you since you've been in
London?"   "Why, no, Mr. Holmes. I think not." "You haven't observed
anyone follow or watch you?" "I seem to've walked right into the thick
of a dime novel," said our visitor.   You've nothing else to report to
us before we go into this matter?"   "Well, it depends upon what you
think worth reporting." "I think anything out of the ordinary routine
of life well worth reporting." "I don't know much of British life yet,
for I've spent nearly all my time in the States and in Canada. But I
hope that to lose one of your boots isn't part of the ordinary routine
of life over here."   "You have lost one of your boots?" "My dear
sir," cried Dr. Mortimer, "it is only mislaid. What's the use of
troubling Mr. Holmes with trifles of this kind?"   "Well, he asked me
for anything outside the ordinary routine." "Exactly," said Holmes,
"however foolish the incident may seem.   I put them both outside my
door last night, and there was only one in the morning. I could get no
sense out of the chap who cleans them. The worst of it is that I only
bought the pair last night in the Strand, and I've never had them on."
"If you've never worn them, why did you put them out to be cleaned?"
"They were tan boots and had never been varnished.   "Then I
understand that on your arrival in London yesterday you went out at
once and bought a pair of boots?" "I did a good deal of shopping. You
see, if I'm to be squire down there I must dress the part, and it
maybe that I've got a little careless in my ways out West. Among other
things I bought these brown boots—gave six dollars for them—and had
one stolen before ever I had them on my feet."   "I confess that I
share Dr. Mortimer's belief that it won't be long before the missing
boot is found."   It's time that you kept your promise and gave me a
full account of what we're all driving at."   "Your request is a very
reasonable one," Holmes answered.   Thus encouraged, our scientific
friend drew his papers from his pocket and presented the whole case as
he'd done upon the morning before.   "Well, I seem to've come into an
inheritance with a vengeance," said he when the long narrative was
finished. It's the pet story of the family, though I never thought of
taking it seriously before. But as to my uncle's death—well, it all
seems boiling up in my head, and I can't get it clear yet. You don't
seem quite to've made up your mind whether it's a case for a policeman
or a clergyman."   "Precisely." I suppose that fits into its place."
"It seems to show that someone knows more than we do about what goes
on upon the moor," said Dr. Mortimer. "And also," said Holmes, "that
someone's not ill-disposed towards you, since they warn you of
danger." "Or it maybe that they wish, for their own purposes, to scare
me away." I'm much indebted to you, Dr. Mortimer, for introducing me
to a problem which presents several interesting alternatives. But the
practical point which we now hafta decide, Sir Henry, is whether it is
or isn't advisable for you to go to Baskerville Hall."   "Why should I
not go?" "There seems to be danger." "Do you mean danger from this
family fiend or do you mean danger from human beings?" "Well, that's
what we hafta find out." "Whichever it is, my answer is fixed. There's
no devil in hell, Mr. Holmes, and there's no man upon earth who can
prevent me from finna the home of my own people, and you may take that
to be my final answer." His dark brows knitted and his face flushed to
a dusky red as he spoke. 'twas evident that the fiery temper of the
Baskervilles wasn't extinct in this their last representative.
"Meanwhile," said he, "I have hardly had time to think overall that
you've told me. It's a big thing for a man to hafta understand and to
decide at one sitting. I should like to've a quiet hour by myself to
make up my mind. Now, look here, Mr. Holmes, it's half-past eleven now
and I'm going back right away to my hotel. Suppose you and your
friend, Dr. Watson, come round and lunch with us at two.   "Is that
convenient to you, Watson?" "Perfectly." Shall I have a cab called?"
"I'd prefer to walk, for this affair has flurried me rather." "I'll
join you in a walk, with pleasure," said his companion. Au revoir, and
good-morning!"   In an instant Holmes had changed from the languid
dreamer to the man of action.   "Your hat and boots, Watson, quick! He
rushed into his room in his dressing-gown and was back again in a few
seconds in a frock-coat. We hurried together down the stairs and into
the street. Dr. Mortimer and Baskerville were still visible about two
hundred yards ahead of us in the direction of Oxford Street.   "Shall
I run on and stop them?" I'm perfectly satisfied with your company if
you'll tolerate mine. Our friends are wise, for it is certainly a very
fine morning for a walk."   He quickened his pace until we'd decreased
the distance which divided us by about half. Once our friends stopped
and stared into a shop window, upon which Holmes did the same. An
instant afterwards he gave a little cry of satisfaction, and,
following the direction of his eager eyes, I saw that a hansom cab
with a man inside which had halted on the other side of the street was
now proceeding slowly onward again.   "There's our man, Watson! We'll
have a good look at him, if we can do no more."   At that instant I
was aware of a bushy black beard and a pair of piercing eyes turned
upon us through the side window of the cab. Holmes looked eagerly
round for another, but no empty one was in sight. Then he dashed in
wild pursuit amid the stream of the traffic, but the start was too
great, and already the cab was out of sight.   said Holmes bitterly as
he emerged panting and white with vexation from the tide of vehicles.
"Was ever such bad luck and such bad management, too? Watson, Watson,
if you're an honest man you'll record this also and set it against my
successes!"   "Who was the man?" "I haven't an idea." "A spy?" "Well,
'twas evident from what we've heard that Baskerville has been very
closely shadowed by someone since he's been in town. How else could it
be known so quickly that 'twas the Northumberland Hotel which he'd
chosen? You may've observed that I twice strolled over to the window
while Dr. Mortimer was reading his legend."   "Yes, I remember." "I
was looking out for loiterers in the street, but I saw none. We're
dealing with a clever man, Watson. This matter cuts very deep, and
though I haven't finally made up my mind whether it is a benevolent or
a malevolent agency which's in touch with us, I'm conscious always of
power and design. When our friends left I at once followed them in the
hopes of marking down their invisible attendant. So wily was he that
he hadn't trusted himself upon foot, but he'd availed himself of a cab
so that he could loiter behind or dash past them and so escape their
notice. His method had the additional advantage that if they're to
take a cab he was all ready to follow them.   "It puts him in the
power of the cabman." "Exactly." "What a pity we'd not get the
number!" "My dear Watson, clumsy as I have been, you surely don't
seriously imagine that I neglected to get the number? 2704 is our man.
But that's no use to us for the moment."   "I fail to see how you
could've done more." "On observing the cab I should've instantly
turned and walked in the other direction. I should then at my leisure
have hired a second cab and followed the first at a respectful
distance, or, better still, have driven to the Northumberland Hotel
and waited there. As it is, by an indiscreet eagerness, which was
taken advantage of with extraordinary quickness and energy by our
opponent, we've betrayed ourselves and lost our man."   We'd been
sauntering slowly down Regent Street during this conversation, and Dr.
Mortimer, with his companion, had long vanished in front of us. "The
shadow has departed and won't return. We must see what further cards
we've in our hands and play them with decision. Could you swear to
that man's face within the cab?"   "I could swear only to the beard."
"And so could I—from which I gather that in all probability 'twas a
false one. A clever man upon so delicate an errand has no use for a
beard save to conceal his features.   He turned into one of the
district messenger offices, where he was warmly greeted by the
manager. "Ah, Wilson, I see you haven't forgotten the little case in
which I had the good fortune to help you?" You saved my good name, and
perhaps my life."   I have some recollection, Wilson, that you'd among
your boys a lad named Cartwright, who showed some ability during the
investigation."   "Yes, sir, he's still with us." And I should be glad
to've change of this five-pound note."   A lad of fourteen, with a
bright, keen face, had obeyed the summons of the manager.   "Let me
have the Hotel Directory," said Holmes. "Thank you! Now, Cartwright,
there're the names of twenty-three hotels here, all in the immediate
neighbourhood of Charing Cross.   "Yes, sir." "You will visit each of
these in turn." "Yes, sir." "You will begin in each case by giving the
outside porter one shilling.   "Yes, sir." You'll say that an
important telegram has miscarried and that you're looking for it. You
understand?"   "Yes, sir." "But what you're really looking for is the
centre page of the Times with some holes cut in it with scissors. Here
is a copy of the Times. You could easily recognize it, could you not?"
"Yes, sir." "In each case the outside porter will send for the hall
porter, to whom also you'll give a shilling. You'll then learn in
possibly twenty cases out of the twenty-three that the waste of the
day before has been burned or removed. In the three other cases you'll
be shown a heap of paper and you'll look for this page of the Times
among it. The odds are enormously against your finding it. There're
ten shillings over in case of emergencies. Let me have a report by
wire at Baker Street before evening. And now, Watson, it only remains
for us to find out by wire the identity of the cabman, No. 2704, and
then we'll drop into one of the Bond Street picture galleries and fill
in the time until we're due at the hotel."   Chapter 5. Three Broken
Threads For two hours the strange business in which we'd been involved
appeared to be forgotten, and he was entirely absorbed in the pictures
of the modern Belgian masters. He'd talk of nothing but art, of which
he'd the crudest ideas, from our leaving the gallery until we found
ourselves at the Northumberland Hotel.   "Sir Henry Baskerville is
upstairs expecting you," said the clerk.   "Have you any objection to
my looking at your register?"   "Not in the least." One was Theophilus
Johnson and family, of Newcastle; the other Oldmore and maid, of High
Lodge, Alton.   "Surely that must be the same Johnson whom I used to
know," said Holmes to the porter.   "No, sir, this's Mr. Johnson, the
coal-owner, a very active gentleman, not older than yourself." "Surely
you're mistaken about his trade?" he's used this hotel for many years,
and he's very well known to us."   "Ah, that settles it. Excuse my
curiosity, but often in calling upon one friend one finds another."
"She is an invalid lady, sir. Her husband was once mayor of
Gloucester.   "Thank you; I'm afraid I cannot claim her acquaintance.
We've established a most important fact by these questions, Watson,"
he continued in a low voice as we went upstairs together. "We know now
that the people who're so interested in our friend haven't settled
down in his own hotel. That means that while they are, as we've seen,
very anxious to watch him, they're equally anxious that he shouldn't
see them.   "What does it suggest?" "It suggests—halloa, my dear
fellow, what on earth is the matter?" His face was flushed with anger,
and he held an old and dusty boot in one of his hands. So furious was
he that he was hardly articulate, and when he did speak 'twas in a
much broader and more Western dialect than any which we'd heard from
him in the morning.   "They'll find they've started into monkey with
the wrong man unless they're careful. By thunder, if that chap can't
find my missing boot there'll be trouble. I can take a joke with the
best, Mr. Holmes, but they've got a bit over the mark this time."
"Still looking for your boot?" "Yes, sir, and mean to find it." "But,
surely, you said that 'twas a new brown boot?" "So it was, sir.
"What! you don't mean to say—?" "That's just what I do mean to say. I
only had three pairs in the world—the new brown, the old black, and
the patent leathers, which I'm wearing. Last night they took one of my
brown ones, and today they've sneaked one of the black. Speak out,
man, and don't stand staring!"   An agitated German waiter had
appeared upon the scene. "No, sir; I have made inquiry allover the
hotel, but I can hear no word of it." "Well, either that boot comes
back before sundown or I'll see the manager and tell him that I go
right straight out of this hotel." "It shall be found, sir—I promise
you that if you'll have a little patience it'll be found." "Mind it
is, for it's the last thing of mine that I'll lose in this den of
thieves.   "I think it's well worth troubling about." "Why, you look
very serious over it." "How do you explain it?" It seems the very
maddest, queerest thing that ever happened to me."   "The queerest
perhaps—" said Holmes thoughtfully. "What do you make of it yourself?"
This case of yours is very complex, Sir Henry. When taken in
conjunction with your uncle's death I amn't sure that of all the five
hundred cases of capital importance which I have handled there's one
which cuts so deep. But we hold several threads in our hands, and the
odds are that one or other of them guides us to the truth. We may
waste time in following the wrong one, but sooner or later we must
come upon the right."   'twas in the private sitting-room to which we
afterwards repaired that Holmes asked Baskerville what're his
intentions.   "To go to Baskerville Hall." "And when?" "At the end of
the week." "On the whole," said Holmes, "I think that your decision is
a wise one. I have ample evidence that you're being dogged in London,
and amid the millions of this great city it is difficult to discover
who these people are or what their object can be. If their intentions
are evil they might do you a mischief, and we should be powerless to
prevent it.   Dr. Mortimer started violently. "Followed!   Have you
among your neighbours or acquaintances on Dartmoor any man with a
black, full beard?"   Barrymore, Sir Charles's butler, is a man with a
full, black beard."   "Ha!   "He is in charge of the Hall." "We had
best ascertain if he's really there, or if by any possibility he might
be in London." "How can you do that?" "Give me a telegraph form. 'Is
all ready for Sir Henry?' Address to Mr. Barrymore, Baskerville Hall.
What's the nearest telegraph-office? Grimpen. good, we'll send a
second wire to the postmaster, Grimpen: 'Telegram to Mr. Barrymore to
be delivered into his own hand. If absent, please return wire to Sir
Henry Baskerville, Northumberland Hotel.' That should let's know
before evening whether Barrymore is at his post in Devonshire or not."
"By the way, Dr. Mortimer, who's this Barrymore, anyhow?"   They've
looked after the Hall for four generations now. So far as I know, he
and his wife are as respectable a couple as any in the county."   "At
the same time," said Baskerville, "it's clear enough that so long as
there're none of the family at the Hall these people have a mighty
fine home and nothing to do." "That is true." "Did Barrymore profit at
all by Sir Charles's will?"   "He and his wife had five hundred pounds
each." "Ha!   "Yes; Sir Charles was very fond of talking about the
provisions of his will." "That is very interesting." "I hope," said
Dr. Mortimer, "that you don't look with suspicious eyes upon everyone
who received a legacy from Sir Charles, for I also had a thousand
pounds left to me." "Indeed! And anyone else?" "There were many
insignificant sums to individuals, and a large number of public
charities.   "And how much was the residue?" "Seven hundred and forty
thousand pounds." Holmes raised his eyebrows in surprise.   The total
value of the estate was close onto a million."   It's a stake for
which a man might well play a desperate game. And one more question,
Dr. Mortimer. Supposing that anything happened to our young friend
here—you will forgive the unpleasant hypothesis!—who would inherit the
estate?"   "Since Rodger Baskerville, Sir Charles's younger brother
died unmarried, the estate would descend to the Desmonds, who're
distant cousins.   These details are all of great interest. Have you
met Mr. James Desmond?"   He's a man of venerable appearance and of
saintly life. I remember that he refused to accept any settlement from
Sir Charles, though he pressed it upon him."   "And this man of simple
tastes would be the heir to Sir Charles's thousands." He'd also be the
heir to the money unless it were willed otherwise by the present
owner, who can, of course, do what he likes with it."   "And have you
made your will, Sir Henry?" I've had no time, for 'twas only yesterday
that I learned how matters stood. But in any case I feel that the
money should go with the title and estate. That was my poor uncle's
idea. How's the owner finna restore the glories of the Baskervilles if
he hasn't money enough to keep up the property? House, land, and
dollars must go together."   "Quite so. Well, Sir Henry, I'm of one
mind with you as to the advisability of your going down to Devonshire
without delay. There's only one provision which I must make.   "Dr.
Mortimer returns with me." "But Dr. Mortimer has his practice to
attend to, and his house is miles away from yours. No, Sir Henry, you
must take with you someone, a trusty man, who'll be always by your
side."   "Is it possible that you could come yourself, Mr.   "If
matters came to a crisis I should endeavour to be present in person;
but you can understand that, with my extensive consulting practice and
with the constant appeals which reach me from many quarters, it is
impossible for me to be absent from London for an indefinite time. At
the present instant one of the most revered names in England is being
besmirched by a blackmailer, and only I can stop a disastrous scandal.
"Whom would you recommend, then?" Holmes laid his hand upon my arm.
"If my friend would undertake it there's no man who's better worth
having at your side when you're in a tight place.   The proposition
took me completely by surprise, but before I had time to answer,
Baskerville seized me by the hand and wrung it heartily. "Well, now,
that's real kind of you, Dr. Watson," said he. If you'll comedown to
Baskerville Hall and see me through I'll never forget it."   The
promise of adventure had always a fascination for me, and I was
complimented by the words of Holmes and by the eagerness with which
the baronet hailed me as a companion. "I don't know how I could employ
my time better."   "When a crisis comes, as it'll do, I'll direct how
you'll act. I suppose that by Saturday all might be ready?"   "Would
that suit Dr.   "Perfectly." "Then on Saturday, unless you hear to the
contrary, we shall meet at the ten-thirty train from Paddington." We'd
risen to depart when Baskerville gave a cry of triumph, and diving
into one of the corners of the room he drew a brown boot from under a
cabinet. "My missing boot!"   "May all our difficulties vanish as
easily!"   "But it is a very singular thing," Dr. Mortimer remarked.
"And so did I," said Baskerville.   "There was certainly no boot in it
then." "In that case the waiter must've placed it there while we were
lunching." Another item had been added to that constant and apparently
purposeless series of small mysteries which had succeeded each other
so rapidly. Setting aside the whole grim story of Sir Charles's death,
we'd a line of inexplicable incidents all within the limits of two
days, which included the receipt of the printed letter, the black-
bearded spy in the hansom, the loss of the new brown boot, the loss of
the old black boot, and now the return of the new brown boot. Holmes
sat in silence in the cab as we drove back to Baker Street, and I knew
from his drawn brows and keen face that his mind, like my own, was
busy in endeavouring to frame some scheme into which all these strange
and apparently disconnected episodes could be fitted. All afternoon
and late into the evening he sat lost in tobacco and thought.   Just
before dinner two telegrams were handed in.   Have just heard that
Barrymore is at the Hall.   The second: Visited twenty-three hotels as
directed, but sorry to report unable to trace cut sheet of Times.
There's nothing more stimulating than a case where everything goes
against you. We must cast round for another scent."   "We have still
the cabman who drove the spy." I have wired to get his name and
address from the Official Registry. I shouldn't be surprised if this
were an answer to my question."   The ring at the bell proved to be
something even more satisfactory than an answer, however, for the door
opened and a rough-looking fellow entered who was evidently the man
himself. "I got a message from the head office that a gent at this
address had been inquiring for No. "I've driven my cab this seven
years and never a word of complaint. I came here straight from the
Yard to ask you to your face what you'd against me."   "On the
contrary, I have half a sovereign for you if you'll gimme a clear
answer to my questions."   "Well, I've had a good day and no mistake,"
said the cabman with a grin.   "First of all your name and address, in
case I want you again." "John Clayton, 3 Turpey Street, the Borough.
Sherlock Holmes made a note of it. "Now, Clayton, tell me all about
the fare who came and watched this house at ten o'clock this morning
and afterwards followed the two gentlemen down Regent Street." The man
looked surprised and a little embarrassed. "The truth is that the
gentleman told me that he was a detective and that I was to say
nothing about him to anyone."   "My good fellow; this's a very serious
business, and you may find yourself in a pretty bad position if you
try to hide anything from me.   "Yes, he did." "When did he say this?"
"When he left me." "Did he say anything more?" "He mentioned his
name." Holmes cast a swift glance of triumph at me. "Oh, he mentioned
his name, did he? That was imprudent.   "His name," said the cabman,
"was Mr. Sherlock Holmes." Never have I seen my friend more completely
taken aback than by the cabman's reply. For an instant he sat in
silent amazement.   "A touch, Watson—an undeniable touch!" "I feel a
foil as quick and supple as my own. He got home upon me very prettily
that time. So his name was Sherlock Holmes, was it?"   "Yes, sir, that
was the gentleman's name." Tell me where you picked him up and all
that occurred."   "He hailed me at half-past nine in Trafalgar Square.
He said that he was a detective, and he offered me two guineas if I'd
do exactly what he wanted all day and ask no questions. First we drove
down to the Northumberland Hotel and waited there until two gentlemen
came out and took a cab from the rank. We followed their cab until it
pulled up somewhere near here."   "This very door," said Holmes. We
pulled up halfway down the street and waited an hour and a half. Then
the two gentlemen passed us, walking, and we followed down Baker
Street and along—"   "I know," said Holmes. "Until we got three-
quarters down Regent Street. Then my gentleman threw up the trap, and
he cried that I should drive right away to Waterloo Station as hard as
I could go. I whipped up the mare and we were there under the ten
minutes. Then he paid up his two guineas, like a good one, and away he
went into the station. Only just as he was leaving he turned round and
he said: 'It might interest you to know that you've been driving Mr.
Sherlock Holmes.'   "I see. And you saw no more of him?" "Not after he
went into the station." "And how'd you describe Mr. Sherlock Holmes?"
The cabman scratched his head. "Well, he wasn't altogether such an
easy gentleman to describe. I'd put him at forty years of age, and he
was of a middle height, two or three inches shorter than you, sir. He
was dressed like a toff, and he'd a black beard, cut square at the
end, and a pale face.   "Colour of his eyes?" "No, I can't say that."
"Nothing more that you can remember?" "No, sir; nothing." "Well, then,
here is your half-sovereign. There's another one waiting for you if
you can bring anymore information.   "Good-night, sir, and thank you!"
John Clayton departed chuckling, and Holmes turned to me with a shrug
of his shoulders and a rueful smile. "Snap goes our third thread, and
we end where we began," said he. "The cunning rascal! He knew our
number, knew that Sir Henry Baskerville had consulted me, spotted who
I was in Regent Street, conjectured that I had got the number of the
cab and would lay my hands on the driver, and so sent back this
audacious message. I tell you, Watson, this time we've got a foeman
who's worthy of our steel. I've been checkmated in London. But I'm not
easy in my mind about it."   "About what?" It's an ugly business,
Watson, an ugly dangerous business, and the more I see of it the less
I like it. Yes, my dear fellow, you may laugh, but I give you my word
that I shall be very glad to have you back safe and sound in Baker
Street once more."   Chapter 6. Baskerville Hall Sir Henry Baskerville
and Dr. Mortimer were ready upon the appointed day, and we started as
arranged for Devonshire.   "I won't bias your mind by suggesting
theories or suspicions, Watson," said he; "I wish you simply to report
facts in the fullest possible manner to me, and you can leave me to do
the theorizing." "What sort of facts?"   "Anything which look to have
a bearing however indirect upon the case, and especially the relations
between young Baskerville and his neighbours or any fresh particulars
concerning the death of Sir Charles. I have made some inquiries myself
in the last few days, but the results have, I fear, been negative. One
thing only appears to be certain, and that's that Mr. James Desmond,
who's the next heir, is an elderly gentleman of a very amiable
disposition, so that this persecution don't arise from him. There
remain the people who'll actually surround Sir Henry Baskerville upon
the moor."   "Would it not be well in the first place to get rid of
this Barrymore couple?" You couldn't make a greater mistake. If
they're innocent it'd be a cruel injustice, and if they're guilty we
should be giving up all chance of bringing it home to them. No, no,
we'll preserve them upon our list of suspects. Then there's a groom at
the Hall, if I remember right. There're two moorland farmers. There's
our friend Dr. Mortimer, whom I believe to be entirely honest, and
there is his wife, of whom we know nothing. There's this naturalist,
Stapleton, and there is his sister, who's said to be a young lady of
attractions. There's Mr. Frankland, of Lafter Hall, who's also an
unknown factor, and there're a few other neighbours. These're the folk
who must be your very special study."   "I will do my best." "You have
arms, I suppose?" "Yes, I thought it as well to take them." Keep your
revolver near you night and day, and never relax your precautions."
Our friends had already secured a first-class carriage and were
waiting for us upon the platform. "No, we've no news of any kind,"
said Dr. Mortimer in answer to my friend's questions. We've never gone
out without keeping a sharp watch, and no one could've escaped our
notice."   "You have always kept together, I presume?" I usually give
up one day to pure amusement when I come to town, so I spent it at the
Museum of the College of Surgeons."   "And I went to look at the folk
in the park," said Baskerville. "But we'd no trouble of any kind." "It
was imprudent, all the same," said Holmes, shaking his head and
looking very grave. "I beg, Sir Henry, that you won't go about alone.
Some great misfortune will befall you if you do.   "No, sir, it is
gone forever." That's very interesting. Well, good-bye," he added as
the train began to glide down the platform. "Bear in mind, Sir Henry,
one of the phrases in that queer old legend which Dr. Mortimer has
read to us, and avoid the moor in those hours of darkness when the
powers of evil are exalted."   I looked back at the platform when we'd
left it far behind and saw the tall, austere figure of Holmes standing
motionless and gazing after us. In a very few hours the brown earth
had become ruddy, the brick had changed to granite, and red cows
grazed in well-hedged fields where the lush grasses and more luxuriant
vegetation spoke of a richer, if a damper, climate. Young Baskerville
stared eagerly out of the window and cried aloud with delight as he
recognized the familiar features of the Devon scenery.   "I've been
over a good part of the world since I left it, Dr. Watson," said he;
"but I have never seen a place to compare with it." "I never saw a
Devonshire man who'd not swear by his county," I remarked. "It depends
upon the breed of men quite as much as on the county," said Dr.
Mortimer. "A glance at our friend here reveals the rounded head of the
Celt, which carries inside it the Celtic enthusiasm and power of
attachment. Poor Sir Charles's head was of a very rare type, half
Gaelic, half Ivernian in its characteristics.   "I was a boy in my
teens at the time of my father's death and had never seen the Hall,
for he lived in a little cottage on the South Coast. Thence I went
straight to a friend in America.   Then your wish is easily granted,
for there is your first sight of the moor," said Dr. Mortimer,
pointing out of the carriage window.   Baskerville sat for a long
time, his eyes fixed upon it, and I read upon his eager face how much
it meant to him, this first sight of that strange spot where the men
of his blood had held sway so long and left their mark so deep. There
he sat, with his tweed suit and his American accent, in the corner of
a prosaic railway-carriage, and yet as I looked at his dark and
expressive face I felt more than ever how true a descendant he was of
that long line of high-blooded, fiery, and masterful men. There were
pride, valour, and strength in his thick brows, his sensitive
nostrils, and his large hazel eyes. If on that forbidding moor a
difficult and dangerous quest should lie before us, this was at least
a comrade for whom one might venture to take a risk with the certainty
that he'd bravely share it.   Outside, beyond the low, white fence, a
wagonette with a pair of cobs was waiting. Our coming was evidently a
great event, for station-master and porters clustered round us to
carry out our luggage. 'twas a sweet, simple country spot, but I was
surprised to observe that by the gate there stood two soldierly men in
dark uniforms who leaned upon their short rifles and glanced keenly at
us as we passed. The coachman, a hard-faced, gnarled little fellow,
saluted Sir Henry Baskerville, and in a few minutes we were flying
swiftly down the broad, white road. Rolling pasture lands curved
upward on either side of us, and old gabled houses peeped out from
amid the thick green foliage, but behind the peaceful and sunlit
countryside there rose ever, dark against the evening sky, the long,
gloomy curve of the moor, broken by the jagged and sinister hills.
The wagonette swung round into a side road, and we curved upward
through deep lanes worn by centuries of wheels, high banks on either
side, heavy with dripping moss and fleshy hart's-tongue ferns.
Bronzing bracken and mottled bramble gleamed in the light of the
sinking sun. Still steadily rising, we passed over a narrow granite
bridge and skirted a noisy stream which gushed swiftly down, foaming
and roaring amid the grey boulders. Both road and stream wound up
through a valley dense with scrub oak and fir. At every turn
Baskerville gave an exclamation of delight, looking eagerly about him
and asking countless questions. To his eyes all seemed beautiful, but
to me a tinge of melancholy lay upon the countryside, which bore so
clearly the mark of the waning year. The rattle of our wheels died
away as we drove through drifts of rotting vegetation—sad gifts, as it
seemed to me, for Nature to throw before the carriage of the returning
heir of the Baskervilles.   cried Dr. Mortimer, "what is this?"   A
steep curve of heath-clad land, an outlying spur of the moor, lay in
front of us. On the summit, hard and clear like an equestrian statue
upon its pedestal, was a mounted soldier, dark and stern, his rifle
poised ready over his forearm.   asked Dr. Mortimer.   Our driver half
turned in his seat. "There's a convict escaped from Princetown, sir.
He's been out three days now, and the warders watch every road and
every station, but they've had no sight of him yet.   "Well, I
understand that they get five pounds if they can give information."
"Yes, sir, but the chance of five pounds is but a poor thing compared
to the chance of having your throat cut. You see, it isn't like any
ordinary convict.   "Who is he, then?" "It is Selden, the Notting Hill
murderer." I remembered the case well, for 'twas one in which Holmes
had taken an interest on account of the peculiar ferocity of the crime
and the wanton brutality which had marked all the actions of the
assassin. The commutation of his death sentence had been due to some
doubts as to his complete sanity, so atrocious was his conduct. Our
wagonette had topped a rise and in front of us rose the huge expanse
of the moor, mottled with gnarled and craggy cairns and tors.
Somewhere there, on that desolate plain, was lurking this fiendish
man, hiding in a burrow like a wild beast, his heart full of
malignancy against the whole race which had cast him out. It needed
but this to complete the grim suggestiveness of the barren waste, the
chilling wind, and the darkling sky. Even Baskerville fell silent and
pulled his overcoat more closely around him.   We'd left the fertile
country behind and beneath us. We looked back on it now, the slanting
rays of a low sun turning the streams to threads of gold and glowing
on the red earth new turned by the plough and the broad tangle of the
woodlands. The road in front of us grew bleaker and wilder over huge
russet and olive slopes, sprinkled with giant boulders. Now and then
we passed a moorland cottage, walled and roofed with stone, with no
creeper to break its harsh outline. Suddenly we looked down into a
cuplike depression, patched with stunted oaks and firs which had been
twisted and bent by the fury of years of storm. Two high, narrow
towers rose over the trees.   "Baskerville Hall," said he. A few
minutes later we'd reached the lodge-gates, a maze of fantastic
tracery in wrought iron, with weather-bitten pillars on either side,
blotched with lichens, and surmounted by the boars' heads of the
Baskervilles. The lodge was a ruin of black granite and bared ribs of
rafters, but facing 'twas a new building, half constructed, the first
fruit of Sir Charles's South African gold.   Through the gateway we
passed into the avenue, where the wheels were again hushed amid the
leaves, and the old trees shot their branches in a sombre tunnel over
our heads.   he asked in a low voice.   "No, no, the yew alley is on
the other side." The young heir glanced round with a gloomy face.
"It's no wonder my uncle felt as if trouble were coming on him in such
a place as this," said he. I'll have a row of electric lamps up herein
six months, and you won't know it again, with a thousand candle-power
Swan and Edison right herein front of the hall door."   The avenue
opened into a broad expanse of turf, and the house lay before us. In
the fading light I could see that the centre was a heavy block of
building from which a porch projected. The whole front was draped in
ivy, with a patch clipped bare here and there where a window or a coat
of arms broke through the dark veil. From this central block rose the
twin towers, ancient, crenelated, and pierced with many loopholes. A
dull light shone through heavy mullioned windows, and from the high
chimneys which rose from the steep, high-angled roof there sprang a
single black column of smoke.   Welcome to Baskerville Hall!"   A tall
man had stepped from the shadow of the porch to open the door of the
wagonette. The figure of a woman was silhouetted against the yellow
light of the hall.   "You don't mind my driving straight home, Sir
Henry?" "My wife is expecting me."   "Surely you will stay and have
some dinner?" I shall probably find some work awaiting me. I'd stay to
show you over the house, but Barrymore will be a better guide than I.
Good-bye, and never hesitate night or day to send for me if I can be
of service."   The wheels died away down the drive while Sir Henry and
I turned into the hall, and the door clanged heavily behind us. 'twas
a fine apartment in which we found ourselves, large, lofty, and
heavily raftered with huge baulks of age-blackened oak. Sir Henry and
I held out our hands to it, for we were numb from our long drive. Then
we gazed round us at the high, thin window of old stained glass, the
oak panelling, the stags' heads, the coats of arms upon the walls, all
dim and sombre in the subdued light of the central lamp.   "It's just
as I imagined it," said Sir Henry. "Is it not the very picture of an
old family home? To think that this should be the same hall in which
for five hundred years my people have lived.   I saw his dark face lit
up with a boyish enthusiasm as he gazed about him. The light beat upon
him where he stood, but long shadows trailed down the walls and hung
like a black canopy above him. Barrymore had returned from taking our
luggage to our rooms. He was a remarkable-looking man, tall, handsome,
with a square black beard and pale, distinguished features.   "Would
you wish dinner to be served at once, sir?" "Is it ready?" You'll find
hot water in your rooms. My wife and I'll be happy, Sir Henry, to stay
with you until you've made your fresh arrangements, but you will
understand that under the new conditions this house will require a
considerable staff."   "What new conditions?" You would, naturally,
wish to have more company, and so you will need changes in your
household."   "Do you mean that your wife and you wish to leave?"
"Only when it is quite convenient to you, sir." I should be sorry to
begin my life hereby breaking an old family connection."   I seemed to
discern some signs of emotion upon the butler's white face. But to
tell the truth, sir, we were both much attached to Sir Charles, and
his death gave us a shock and made these surroundings very painful to
us. I fear that we shall never again be easy in our minds at
Baskerville Hall."   "But what do you intend to do?" "I have no doubt,
sir, that we shall succeed in establishing ourselves in some business.
Sir Charles's generosity has given us the means to do so.   A square
balustraded gallery ran round the top of the old hall, approached by a
double stair. From this central point two long corridors extended the
whole length of the building, from which all the bedrooms opened.
These rooms appeared to be much more modern than the central part of
the house, and the bright paper and numerous candles did something to
remove the sombre impression which our arrival had left upon my mind.
But the dining-room which opened out of the hall was a place of shadow
and gloom. 'twas a long chamber with a step separating the dais where
the family sat from the lower portion reserved for their dependents.
Black beams shot across above our heads, with a smoke-darkened ceiling
beyond them. With rows of flaring torches to light it up, and the
colour and rude hilarity of an old-time banquet, it might've softened;
but now, when two black-clothed gentlemen sat in the little circle of
light thrown by a shaded lamp, one's voice became hushed and one's
spirit subdued. A dim line of ancestors, in every variety of dress,
from the Elizabethan knight to the buck of the Regency, stared down
upon us and daunted us by their silent company. We talked little, and
I for one was glad when the meal was over and we were able to retire
into the modern billiard-room and smoke a cigarette.   "My word, it
isn't a very cheerful place," said Sir Henry. "I suppose one can tone
down to it, but I feel a bit out of the picture at present. However,
if it suits you, we'll retire early tonight, and perhaps things look
more cheerful in the morning."   It opened upon the grassy space which
lay in front of the hall door. Beyond, two copses of trees moaned and
swung in a rising wind. A half moon broke through the rifts of racing
clouds. In its cold light I saw beyond the trees a broken fringe of
rocks, and the long, low curve of the melancholy moor. I closed the
curtain, feeling that my last impression was in keeping with the rest.
I found myself weary and yet wakeful, tossing restlessly from side to
side, seeking for the sleep which wouldn't come. Far away a chiming
clock struck out the quarters of the hours, but otherwise a deathly
silence lay upon the old house. And then suddenly, in the very dead of
the night, there came a sound to my ears, clear, resonant, and
unmistakable. 'twas the sob of a woman, the muffled, strangling gasp
of one who's torn by an uncontrollable sorrow. I sat up in bed and
listened intently. The noise couldn't've been far away and was
certainly in the house. For half an hour I waited with every nerve on
the alert, but there came no other sound save the chiming clock and
the rustle of the ivy on the wall.   Chapter 7. The Stapletons of
Merripit House As Sir Henry and I sat at breakfast the sunlight
flooded in through the high mullioned windows, throwing watery patches
of colour from the coats of arms which covered them. The dark
panelling glowed like bronze in the golden rays, and it was hard to
realise that this was indeed the chamber which had struck such a gloom
into our souls upon the evening before.   "I guess it is ourselves and
not the house that we hafta blame!" "We were tired with our journey
and chilled by our drive, so we took a grey view of the place. Now
we're fresh and well, so it is all cheerful once more."   "Did you,
for example, happen to hear someone, a woman I think, sobbing in the
night?"   "That is curious, for I did when I was half asleep fancy
that I heard something of the sort.   "I heard it distinctly, and I'm
sure that it was really the sob of a woman." He rang the bell and
asked Barrymore whether he could account for our experience. It seemed
to me that the pallid features of the butler turned a shade paler
still as he listened to his master's question.   "There are only two
women in the house, Sir Henry," he answered. The other is my wife, and
I can answer for it that the sound couldn't've come from her."   And
yet he lied as he said it, for it chanced that after breakfast I met
Barrymore in the long corridor with the sun full upon her face. She
was a large, impassive, heavy-featured woman with a stern set
expression of mouth. But her telltale eyes were red and glanced at me
from between swollen lids. 'twas she, then, who wept in the night, and
if she did so her husband must know it. Yet he'd taken the obvious
risk of discovery in declaring that 'twasn't so. And why did she weep
so bitterly? Already round this pale-faced, handsome, black-bearded
man there was gathering an atmosphere of mystery and of gloom. 'twas
he who'd been the first to discover the body of Sir Charles, and we'd
only his word for all the circumstances which led up to the old man's
death. Was it possible that it was Barrymore, after all, whom we'd
seen in the cab in Regent Street? The beard might well have been the
same. The cabman had described a somewhat shorter man, but such an
impression might easily have been erroneous. How could I settle the
point forever? Obviously the first thing to do was to see the Grimpen
postmaster and find whether the test telegram had really been placed
in Barrymore's own hands. Be the answer what it might, I should at
least have something to report to Sherlock Holmes.   Sir Henry had
numerous papers to examine after breakfast, so that the time was
propitious for my excursion. It was a pleasant walk of four miles
along the edge of the moor, leading me at last to a small grey hamlet,
in which two larger buildings, which proved to be the inn and the
house of Dr. Mortimer, stood high above the rest.   "Certainly, sir,"
said he, "I had the telegram delivered to Mr. Barrymore as directed."
"Who delivered it?" James, you delivered that telegram to Mr.
Barrymore at the Hall last week, did you not?"   "Yes, father, I
delivered it." "Into his own hands?"   "Well, he was up in the loft at
the time, so that I couldn't put it into his own hands, but I gave it
into Barrymore's hands, and she promised to deliver it at once." "Did
you see Mr.   "No, sir; I tell you he was in the loft." "If you didn't
see him, how do you know he was in the loft?" "Well, surely his own
wife ought to know where he is," said the postmaster testily. If there
is any mistake it is for Mr. Barrymore himself to complain."   It
seemed hopeless to pursue the inquiry any farther, but it was clear
that in spite of Holmes's ruse we'd no proof that Barrymore hadn't
been in London all the time. Suppose that it were so—suppose that the
same man had been the last who'd seen Sir Charles alive, and the first
to dog the new heir when he returned to England. Was he the agent of
others or had he some sinister design of his own? What interest could
he've in persecuting the Baskerville family? I thought of the strange
warning clipped out of the leading article of the Times. Was that his
work or was it possibly the doing of someone who was bent upon
counteracting his schemes? The only conceivable motive was that which
had been suggested by Sir Henry, that if the family could be scared
away a comfortable and permanent home would be secured for the
Barrymores. But surely such an explanation as that would be quite
inadequate to account for the deep and subtle scheming which seemed to
be weaving an invisible net round the young baronet. Holmes himself
had said that no more complex case had come to him in all the long
series of his sensational investigations. I prayed, as I walked back
along the grey, lonely road, that my friend might soon be freed from
his preoccupations and able to comedown to take this heavy burden of
responsibility from my shoulders.   Suddenly my thoughts were
interrupted by the sound of running feet behind me and by a voice
which called me by name. He was a small, slim, clean-shaven, prim-
faced man, flaxen-haired and lean-jawed, between thirty and forty
years of age, dressed in a grey suit and wearing a straw hat. A tin
box for botanical specimens hung over his shoulder and he carried a
green butterfly-net in one of his hands.   "You will, I am sure,
excuse my presumption, Dr. Watson," said he as he came panting up to
where I stood. "Here on the moor we're homely folk and don't wait for
formal introductions. You may possibly have heard my name from our
mutual friend, Mortimer.   "Your net and box would've told me as
much," said I, "for I knew that Mr. Stapleton was a naturalist.   "I
have been calling on Mortimer, and he pointed you out to me from the
window of his surgery as you passed. As our road lay the same way I
thought that I'd overtake you and introduce myself.   "He is very
well, thank you." "We were all rather afraid that after the sad death
of Sir Charles the new baronet might refuse to live here. It's asking
much of a wealthy man to comedown and bury himself in a place of this
kind, but I needn't tell you that it means a very great deal to the
countryside.   "I don't think that it is likely." "Of course you know
the legend of the fiend dog which haunts the family?" "I have heard
it." Any number of them are ready to swear that they've seen such a
creature upon the moor." He spoke with a smile, but I seemed to read
in his eyes that he took the matter more seriously. "The story took a
great hold upon the imagination of Sir Charles, and I have no doubt
that it led to his tragic end."   "But how?" "His nerves were so
worked up that the appearance of any dog might've had a fatal effect
upon his diseased heart. I feared that some disaster might occur, for
I was very fond of the old man, and I knew that his heart was weak."
"How did you know that?" "My friend Mortimer told me." "You think,
then, that some dog pursued Sir Charles, and that he died of fright in
consequence?" "Have you any better explanation?" "I haven't come to
any conclusion." "Has Mr. Sherlock Holmes?" The words took away my
breath for an instant but a glance at the placid face and steadfast
eyes of my companion showed that no surprise was intended. "The
records of your detective have reached us here, and you couldn't
celebrate him without being known yourself. When Mortimer told me your
name he couldn't deny your identity. If you're here, then it follows
that Mr. Sherlock Holmes is interesting himself in the matter, and I
am naturally curious to know what view he may take."   "I am afraid
that I cannot answer that question." "May I ask if he's finna honour
us with a visit himself?" "He cannot leave town at present.   He might
throw some light on that which's so dark to us. But as to your own
researches, if there is any possible way in which I can be of service
to you I trust that you will command me. If I had any indication of
the nature of your suspicions or how you propose to investigate the
case, I might perhaps even now give you some aid or advice."   "I
assure you that I am simply hereupon a visit to my friend, Sir Henry,
and that I need no help of any kind." said Stapleton. "You are
perfectly right to be wary and discreet. I am justly reproved for what
I feel was an unjustifiable intrusion, and I promise you that I'll not
mention the matter again."   We'd come to a point where a narrow
grassy path struck off from the road and wound away across the moor. A
steep, boulder-sprinkled hill lay upon the right which had in bygone
days been cut into a granite quarry. The face which was turned towards
us formed a dark cliff, with ferns and brambles growing in its niches.
"A moderate walk along this moor-path brings us to Merripit House,"
said he.   My first thought was that I should be by Sir Henry's side.
But then I remembered the pile of papers and bills with which his
study table was littered. And Holmes had expressly said that I should
study the neighbours upon the moor. I accepted Stapleton's invitation,
and we turned together down the path.   "It is a wonderful place, the
moor," said he, looking round over the undulating downs, long green
rollers, with crests of jagged granite foaming up into fantastic
surges. You cannot think the wonderful secrets which it contains. It's
so vast, and so barren, and so mysterious."   "You know it well,
then?" The residents would call me a newcomer. We came shortly after
Sir Charles settled. But my tastes led me to explore every part of the
country round, and I should think that there're few men who know it
better than I do."   "Is it hard to know?" You see, for example, this
great plain to the north herewith the queer hills breaking out of it.
Do you observe anything remarkable about that?"   "It would be a rare
place for a gallop." You notice those bright green spots scattered
thickly over it?"   "Yes, they seem more fertile than the rest."
Stapleton laughed. "That is the great Grimpen Mire," said he. "A false
step yonder means death to man or beast. Only yesterday I saw one of
the moor ponies wander into it. I saw his head for quite a long time
craning out of the bog-hole, but it sucked him down at last. Even in
dry seasons it is a danger to cross it, but after these autumn rains
it is an awful place. And yet I can find my way to the very heart of
it and return alive. By George, there is another of those miserable
ponies!"   Then a long, agonised, writhing neck shot upward and a
dreadful cry echoed over the moor. It turned me cold with horror, but
my companion's nerves seemed to be stronger than mine.   said he. "The
mire has him. Two in two days, and many more, perhaps, for they get in
the way of going therein the dry weather and never know the difference
until the mire has them in its clutches. It's a bad place, the great
Grimpen Mire."   "And you say you can penetrate it?" "Yes, there're a
few paths which a very active man can take.   "But why should you wish
to go into so horrible a place?" They're really islands cutoff on all
sides by the impassable mire, which's crawled round them in years.
That's where the rare plants and the butterflies are, if you've the
wit to reach them."   "I shall try my luck some day." He looked at me
with a surprised face. "For God's sake put such an idea out of your
mind," said he. I assure you that there'd not be the least chance of
your coming back alive. It's only by remembering certain complex
landmarks that I am able to do it."   "Halloa!" I cried. "What is
that?" A long, low moan, indescribably sad, swept over the moor. From
a dull murmur it swelled into a deep roar, and then sank back into a
melancholy, throbbing murmur once again. Stapleton looked at me with a
curious expression in his face.   "Queer place, the moor!"   "But
what's it?" "The peasants say it is the Hound of the Baskervilles
calling for its prey.   I looked round, with a chill of fear in my
heart, at the huge swelling plain, mottled with the green patches of
rushes.   "You are an educated man. You don't believe such nonsense as
that?" "What do you think is the cause of so strange a sound?"   It's
the mud settling, or the water rising, or something."   "No, no, that
was a living voice." Did you ever hear a bittern booming?"   "No, I
never did." Yes, I shouldn't be surprised to learn that what we've
heard is the cry of the last of the bitterns."   "It's the weirdest,
strangest thing that ever I heard in my life." "Yes, it's rather an
uncanny place altogether. Look at the hillside yonder.   The whole
slope was covered with grey circular rings of stone, a score of them
at least. "What are they? Sheep-pens?" "No, they're the homes of our
worthy ancestors. Prehistoric man lived thickly on the moor, and as no
one in particular has lived there since, we find all his little
arrangements as he left them. You can even see his hearth and his
couch if you've the curiosity to go inside.   "But it is quite a town.
"Neolithic man—no date." "What did he do?" "He grazed his cattle on
these slopes, and he learned to dig for tin when the bronze sword
began to supersede the stone axe. Look at the great trench in the
opposite hill. Yes, you will find some very singular points about the
moor, Dr. Watson. Oh, excuse me an instant! It's surely Cyclopides."
A small fly or moth had fluttered across our path, and in an instant
Stapleton was rushing with extraordinary energy and speed in pursuit
of it. His grey clothes and jerky, zigzag, irregular progress made him
not unlike some huge moth himself. I was standing watching his pursuit
with a mixture of admiration for his extraordinary activity and fear
lest he should lose his footing in the treacherous mire, when I heard
the sound of steps and, turning round, found a woman near me upon the
path. She had come from the direction in which the plume of smoke
indicated the position of Merripit House, but the dip of the moor had
hid her until she was quite close.   I couldn't doubt that this was
the Stapleton of whom I had been told, since ladies of any sort must
be few upon the moor, and I remembered that I had heard someone
describe her as being a beauty. There couldn't've been a greater
contrast between brother and sister, for Stapleton was neutral tinted,
with light hair and grey eyes, while she was darker than any brunette
whom I have seen in England—slim, elegant, and tall. She had a proud,
finely cut face, so regular that it might've seemed impassive were it
not for the sensitive mouth and the beautiful dark, eager eyes. With
her perfect figure and elegant dress she was, indeed, a strange
apparition upon a lonely moorland path. Her eyes were on her brother
as I turned, and then she quickened her pace towards me. I had raised
my hat and was about to make some explanatory remark when her own
words turned all my thoughts into a new channel.   "Go back!" "Go back
to London, instantly."   Her eyes blazed at me, and she tapped the
ground impatiently with her foot.   "Why should I go back?" I asked.
She spoke in a low, eager voice, with a curious lisp in her utterance.
"But for God's sake do what I ask you. Go back and never set foot upon
the moor again."   "But I have only just come." "Man, man!" "Can you
not tell when a warning is for your own good? Go back to London! Start
tonight! Get away from this place at all costs! Hush, my brother is
coming! Not a word of what I have said. Would you mind getting that
orchid for me among the mare's-tails yonder? We're very rich in
orchids on the moor, though, of course, you're rather late to see the
beauties of the place."   Stapleton had abandoned the chase and came
back to us breathing hard and flushed with his exertions. said he, and
it seemed to me that the tone of his greeting wasn't altogether a
cordial one.   "Well, Jack, you're very hot." "Yes, I was chasing a
Cyclopides. He's very rare and seldom found in the late autumn. He
spoke unconcernedly, but his small light eyes glanced incessantly from
the girl to me.   "You have introduced yourselves, I can see." I was
telling Sir Henry that it was rather late for him to see the true
beauties of the moor."   "Why, who do you think this is?" "I imagine
that it must be Sir Henry Baskerville." "Only a humble commoner, but
his friend. My name is Dr. Watson."   A flush of vexation passed over
her expressive face.   "Why, you'd not much time for talk," her
brother remarked with the same questioning eyes. "I talked as if Dr.
Watson were a resident instead of being merely a visitor," said she.
"It cannot much matter to him whether it is early or late for the
orchids.   A short walk brought us to it, a bleak moorland house, once
the farm of some grazier in the old prosperous days, but now put into
repair and turned into a modern dwelling. An orchard surrounded it,
but the trees, as is usual upon the moor, were stunted and nipped, and
the effect of the whole place was mean and melancholy. Inside,
however, there were large rooms furnished with an elegance in which I
seemed to recognize the taste of the lady. As I looked from their
windows at the interminable granite-flecked moor rolling unbroken to
the farthest horizon I couldn't but marvel at what could've brought
this highly educated man and this beautiful woman to live in such a
place.   "Queer spot to choose, is it not?" "And yet we manage to make
ourselves fairly happy, do we not, Beryl?"   "Quite happy," said she,
but there was no ring of conviction in her words. "I had a school,"
said Stapleton. "It was in the north country. The work to a man of my
temperament was mechanical and uninteresting, but the privilege of
living with youth, of helping to mould those young minds, and of
impressing them with one's own character and ideals was very dear to
me. A serious epidemic broke out in the school and three of the boys
died. It never recovered from the blow, and much of my capital was
irretrievably swallowed up. And yet, if it weren't for the loss of the
charming companionship of the boys, I could rejoice over my own
misfortune, for, with my strong tastes for botany and zoology, I find
an unlimited field of work here, and my sister is as devoted to Nature
as I am. All this, Dr. Watson, has been brought upon your head by your
expression as you surveyed the moor out of our window."   "It
certainly did cross my mind that it might be a little dull—less for
you, perhaps, than for your sister." "No, no, I am never dull," said
she quickly. "We have books, we've our studies, and we have
interesting neighbours. Dr. Mortimer is a most learned man in his own
line. Poor Sir Charles was also an admirable companion. Do you think
that I should intrude if I were to call this afternoon and make the
acquaintance of Sir Henry?"   "I am sure that he'd be delighted."
"Then perhaps you'd mention that I propose to do so. We may in our
humble way do something to make things more easy for him until he
becomes accustomed to his new surroundings. Will you come upstairs,
Dr. Watson, and inspect my collection of Lepidoptera? By the time that
you have looked through them lunch will be almost ready."   The
melancholy of the moor, the death of the unfortunate pony, the weird
sound which had been associated with the grim legend of the
Baskervilles, all these things tinged my thoughts with sadness. Then
on the top of these more or less vague impressions there'd come the
definite and distinct warning of Stapleton, delivered with such
intense earnestness that I couldn't doubt that some grave and deep
reason lay behind it. I resisted all pressure to stay for lunch, and I
set off at once upon my return journey, taking the grass-grown path by
which we'd come.   It seems, however, that there must've been some
short cut for those who knew it, for before I had reached the road I
was astounded to see Stapleton sitting upon a rock next to the track.
"I have run all the way to cut you off, Dr. Watson," said she. I
mustn't stop, or my brother may miss me. I wanted to say to you how
sorry I am about the stupid mistake I made in thinking that you were
Sir Henry. Please forget the words I said, which have no application
whatever to you."   "I am Sir Henry's friend, and his welfare is a
very close concern of mine. Tell me why it was that you were so eager
that Sir Henry should return to London."   "A woman's whim, Dr.
Watson.   I remember the thrill in your voice. I remember the look in
your eyes. Please, please, be frank with me, Stapleton, forever since
I have been here I have been conscious of shadows all round me. Life
has become like that great Grimpen Mire, with little green patches
everywhere into which one may sink and with no guide to point the
track. Tell me then what it was that you meant, and I'll promise to
convey your warning to Sir Henry."   An expression of irresolution
passed for an instant over her face, but her eyes had hardened again
when she answered me. "My brother and I were much shocked by the death
of Sir Charles. We knew him very intimately, for his favourite walk
was over the moor to our house. He was deeply impressed with the curse
which hung over the family, and when this tragedy came I naturally
felt that there must be some grounds for the fears which he'd
expressed. I was distressed therefore when another member of the
family came down to live here, and I felt that he should be warned of
the danger which he'll run. That was all which I intended to convey.
"But what's the danger?" "You know the story of the hound?" "I don't
believe in such nonsense." If you have any influence with Sir Henry,
take him away from a place which's always been fatal to his family.
The world is wide. Why should he wish to live at the place of danger?"
That's Sir Henry's nature. I fear that unless you can gimme some more
definite information than this it'd be impossible to get him to move."
"I cannot say anything definite, for I don't know anything definite."
"I would ask you one more question, Stapleton. If you meant no more
than this when you first spoke to me, why should you not wish your
brother to overhear what you said?   "My brother is very anxious to
have the Hall inhabited, for he thinks it is for the good of the poor
folk upon the moor. He'd be very angry if he knew that I have said
anything which might induce Sir Henry to go away. But I have done my
duty now and I'll say no more. I must go back, or he'll miss me and
suspect that I have seen you. She turned and had disappeared in a few
minutes among the scattered boulders, while I, with my soul full of
vague fears, pursued my way to Baskerville Hall.   Chapter 8. First
Report of Dr. Watson One page is missing, but otherwise they're as
written and show my feelings and suspicions of the moment more
accurately than my memory, clear as it is upon these tragic events,
can possibly do.   Baskerville Hall, October 13th. MY DEAR HOLMES, My
previous letters and telegrams have kept you pretty well up to date as
to all that's occurred in this most God-forsaken corner of the world.
The longer one stays here the more does the spirit of the moor sink
into one's soul, its vastness, and also its grim charm. When you're
once out upon its bosom you have left all traces of modern England
behind you, but, on the other hand, you're conscious everywhere of the
homes and the work of the prehistoric people. On all sides of you as
you walk are the houses of these forgotten folk, with their graves and
the huge monoliths which are supposed to have marked their temples. As
you look at their grey stone huts against the scarred hillsides you
leave your own age behind you, and if you were to see a skin-clad,
hairy man crawl out from the low door fitting a flint-tipped arrow
onto the string of his bow, you'd feel that his presence there was
more natural than your own. I am no antiquarian, but I could imagine
that they're some unwarlike and harried race who were forced to accept
that which none other would occupy.   All this, however, is foreign to
the mission on which you sent me and will probably be very
uninteresting to your severely practical mind. Let me, therefore,
return to the facts concerning Sir Henry Baskerville.   If you haven't
had any report within the last few days it is because up to today
there was nothing of importance to relate. Then a very surprising
circumstance occurred, which I shall tell you in due course.   One of
these, concerning which I have said little, is the escaped convict
upon the moor. There's strong reason now to believe that he's got
right away, which's a considerable relief to the lonely householders
of this district. A fortnight has passed since his flight, during
which he hasn't been seen and nothing has been heard of him. It's
surely inconceivable that he could've held out upon the moor during
all that time. Anyone of these stone huts would give him a hiding-
place. But there is nothing to eat unless he were to catch and
slaughter one of the moor sheep. We think, therefore, that he's gone,
and the outlying farmers sleep the better in consequence.   We're four
able-bodied men in this household, so that we could take good care of
ourselves, but I confess that I have had uneasy moments when I have
thought of the Stapletons. There're one maid, an old manservant, the
sister, and the brother, the latter not a very strong man. They'd be
helpless in the hands of a desperate fellow like this Notting Hill
criminal if he could once effect an entrance. Both Sir Henry and I
were concerned at their situation, and it was suggested that Perkins
the groom should go over to sleep there, but Stapleton wouldn't hear
of it.   The fact is that our friend, the baronet, begins to display a
considerable interest in our fair neighbour. It isn't to be wondered
at, for time hangs heavily in this lonely spot to an active man like
him, and she's a very fascinating and beautiful woman. There's
something tropical and exotic about her which forms a singular
contrast to her cool and unemotional brother. Yet he also gives the
idea of hidden fires. He's certainly a very marked influence over her,
for I have seen her continually glance at him as she talked as if
seeking approbation for what she said. There's a dry glitter in his
eyes and a firm set of his thin lips, which goes with a positive and
possibly a harsh nature. You'd find him an interesting study.   He
came over to call upon Baskerville on that first day, and the very
next morning he took us both to show us the spot where the legend of
the wicked Hugo is supposed to have had its origin. It was an
excursion of some miles across the moor to a place which's so dismal
that it might've suggested the story. We found a short valley between
rugged tors which led to an open, grassy space flecked over with the
white cotton grass. In the middle of it rose two great stones, worn
and sharpened at the upper end until they looked like the huge
corroding fangs of some monstrous beast. Sir Henry was much interested
and asked Stapleton more than once whether he did really believe in
the possibility of the interference of the supernatural in the affairs
of men. He spoke lightly, but it was evident that he was much in
earnest. Stapleton was guarded in his replies, but it was easy to see
that he said less than he might, and that he wouldn't express his
whole opinion out of consideration for the feelings of the baronet. He
told us of similar cases, where families had suffered from some evil
influence, and he left us with the impression that he shared the
popular view upon the matter.   On our way back we stayed for lunch at
Merripit House, and it was there that Sir Henry made the acquaintance
of Stapleton. From the first moment that he saw her he appeared to be
strongly attracted by her, and I am much mistaken if the feeling
wasn't mutual. He referred to her again and again on our walk home,
and since then hardly a day has passed that we haven't seen something
of the brother and sister. One would imagine that such a match would
be very welcome to Stapleton, and yet I have more than once caught a
look of the strongest disapprobation in his face when Sir Henry has
been paying some attention to his sister. He's much attached to her,
no doubt, and would lead a lonely life without her, but it'd seem the
height of selfishness if he were to stand in the way of her making so
brilliant a marriage. Yet I am certain that he don't wish their
intimacy to ripen into love, and I have several times observed that
he's taken pains to prevent them from being tête-à-tête. By the way,
your instructions to me never to allow Sir Henry to go out alone will
become much more onerous if a love affair were to be added to our
other difficulties. My popularity would soon suffer if I were to carry
out your orders to the letter.   Mortimer lunched with us. He's been
excavating a barrow at Long Down and has got a prehistoric skull which
fills him with great joy. Never was there such a single-minded
enthusiast as he! The Stapletons came in afterwards, and the good
doctor took us all to the yew alley at Sir Henry's request to show us
exactly how everything occurred upon that fatal night. It's a long,
dismal walk, the yew alley, between two high walls of clipped hedge,
with a narrow band of grass upon either side. At the far end is an old
tumble-down summer-house. Halfway down is the moor-gate, where the old
gentleman left his cigar-ash. It is a white wooden gate with a latch.
Beyond it lies the wide moor. I remembered your theory of the affair
and tried to picture all that had occurred. As the old man stood there
he saw something coming across the moor, something which terrified him
so that he lost his wits and ran and ran until he died of sheer horror
and exhaustion. There was the long, gloomy tunnel down which he fled.
And from what? A sheep-dog of the moor? Or a spectral hound, black,
silent, and monstrous? Was there a human agency in the matter? Did the
pale, watchful Barrymore know more than he cared to say? It was all
dim and vague, but always there is the dark shadow of crime behind it.
One other neighbour I have met since I wrote last. This's Mr.
Frankland, of Lafter Hall, who lives some four miles to the south of
us. His passion is for the British law, and he's spent a large fortune
in litigation. He fights for the mere pleasure of fighting and is
equally ready to take up either side of a question, so that it is no
wonder that he's found it a costly amusement. Sometimes he'll shut up
a right of way and defy the parish to make him open it. At others
he'll with his own hands tear down some other man's gate and declare
that a path has existed therefrom time immemorial, defying the owner
to prosecute him for trespass. He's learned in old manorial and
communal rights, and he applies his knowledge sometimes in favour of
the villagers of Fernworthy and sometimes against them, so that he's
periodically either carried in triumph down the village street or else
burned in effigy, according to his latest exploit. He's said to have
about seven lawsuits upon his hands at present, which will probably
swallow up the remainder of his fortune and so draw his sting and
leave him harmless for the future. Apart from the law he seems a
kindly, good-natured person, and I only mention him because you were
particular that I should send some description of the people who
surround us. He's curiously employed at present, for, being an amateur
astronomer, he's an excellent telescope, with which he lies upon the
roof of his own house and sweeps the moor all day in the hope of
catching a glimpse of the escaped convict. If he'd confine his
energies to this all would be well, but there're rumours that he
intends to prosecute Dr. Mortimer for opening a grave without the
consent of the next of kin because he dug up the Neolithic skull in
the barrow on Long Down. He helps to keep our lives from being
monotonous and gives a little comic relief where it is badly needed.
And now, having brought you up to date in the escaped convict, the
Stapletons, Dr. Mortimer, and Frankland, of Lafter Hall, let me end on
that which's most important and tell you more about the Barrymores,
and especially about the surprising development of last night. First
of all about the test telegram, which you sent from London to make
sure that Barrymore was really here. I have already explained that the
testimony of the postmaster shows that the test was worthless and that
we have no proof one way or the other. I told Sir Henry how the matter
stood, and he at once, in his downright fashion, had Barrymore up and
asked him whether he'd received the telegram himself.   asked Sir
Henry.   Barrymore looked surprised, and considered for a little time.
"No," said he, "I was in the box-room at the time, and my wife brought
it up to me." "Did you answer it yourself?" "No; I told my wife what
to answer and she went down to write it." In the evening he recurred
to the subject of his own accord. "I couldn't quite understand the
object of your questions this morning, Sir Henry," said he.   Sir
Henry had to assure him that 'twasn't so and pacify him by giving him
a considerable part of his old wardrobe, the London outfit having now
all arrived. She's a heavy, solid person, very limited, intensely
respectable, and inclined to be puritanical. You could hardly conceive
a less emotional subject. Yet I have told you how, on the first night
here, I heard her sobbing bitterly, and since then I have more than
once observed traces of tears upon her face. Some deep sorrow gnaws
ever at her heart. Sometimes I wonder if she's a guilty memory which
haunts her, and sometimes I suspect Barrymore of being a domestic
tyrant. I have always felt that there was something singular and
questionable in this man's character, but the adventure of last night
brings all my suspicions to a head.   You're aware that I amn't a very
sound sleeper, and since I have been on guard in this house my
slumbers have been lighter than ever. Last night, about two in the
morning, I was aroused by a stealthy step passing my room. I rose,
opened my door, and peeped out. A long black shadow was trailing down
the corridor. It was thrown by a man who walked softly down the
passage with a candle held in his hand. He was in shirt and trousers,
with no covering to his feet. I could merely see the outline, but his
height told me that it was Barrymore. He walked very slowly and
circumspectly, and there was something indescribably guilty and
furtive in his whole appearance.   I have told you that the corridor
is broken by the balcony which runs round the hall, but that it is
resumed upon the farther side. When I came round the balcony he'd
reached the end of the farther corridor, and I could see from the
glimmer of light through an open door that he'd entered one of the
rooms. Now, all these rooms are unfurnished and unoccupied so that his
expedition became more mysterious than ever. The light shone steadily
as if he were standing motionless. I crept down the passage as
noiselessly as I could and peeped round the corner of the door.
Barrymore was crouching at the window with the candle held against the
glass. His profile was half turned towards me, and his face seemed to
be rigid with expectation as he stared out into the blackness of the
moor. For some minutes he stood watching intently. Then he gave a deep
groan and with an impatient gesture he put out the light. Instantly I
made my way back to my room, and very shortly came the stealthy steps
passing again upon their return journey. Long afterwards when I had
fallen into a light sleep I heard a key turn somewhere in a lock, but
I couldn't tell whence the sound came. What it all means I cannot
guess, but there is some secret business going on in this house of
gloom which sooner or later we shall get to the bottom of. I don't
trouble you with my theories, for you asked me to furnish you only
with facts. I have had a long talk with Sir Henry this morning, and we
have made a plan of campaign founded upon my observations of last
night.   Chapter 9. The Light upon the Moor [Second Report of Dr.
Watson] Baskerville Hall, Oct. 15th. MY DEAR HOLMES, If I was
compelled to leave you without much news during the early days of my
mission you must acknowledge that I am making up for lost time, and
that events are now crowding thick and fast upon us. In my last report
I ended upon my top note with Barrymore at the window, and now I have
quite a budget already which will, unless I am much mistaken,
considerably surprise you. Things have taken a turn which I
couldn't've anticipated. In some ways they've within the last forty-
eight hours become much clearer and in some ways they've become more
complicated.   Before breakfast on the morning following my adventure
I went down the corridor and examined the room in which Barrymore had
been on the night before. The western window through which he had
stared so intently has, I noticed, one peculiarity above all other
windows in the house—it commands the nearest outlook onto the moor.
There's an opening between two trees which enables one from this point
of view to look right down upon it, while from all the other windows
it is only a distant glimpse which can be obtained. It follows,
therefore, that Barrymore, since only this window would serve the
purpose, must've been looking out for something or somebody upon the
moor. The night was very dark, so that I can hardly imagine how he
could've hoped to see anyone. That would've accounted for his stealthy
movements and also for the uneasiness of his wife. The man is a
striking-looking fellow, very well equipped to steal the heart of a
country girl, so that this theory seemed to have something to support
it. That opening of the door which I had heard after I had returned to
my room might mean that he had gone out to keep some clandestine
appointment. So I reasoned with myself in the morning, and I tell you
the direction of my suspicions, however much the result may've shown
that they're unfounded.   But whatever the true explanation of
Barrymore's movements might be, I felt that the responsibility of
keeping them to myself until I could explain them was more than I
could bear. I had an interview with the baronet in his study after
breakfast, and I told him all that I had seen.   "Two or three times I
have heard his steps in the passage, coming and going, just about the
hour you name."   "Perhaps then he pays a visit every night to that
particular window," I suggested. If so, we should be able to shadow
him and see what it is that he's after. I wonder what your friend
Holmes would do if he were here."   "He would follow Barrymore and see
what he did."   "Then we shall do it together." "But surely he'd hear
us." We'll sit up in my room tonight and wait until he passes." Sir
Henry rubbed his hands with pleasure, and it was evident that he
hailed the adventure as a relief to his somewhat quiet life upon the
moor.   The baronet has been in communication with the architect who
prepared the plans for Sir Charles, and with a contractor from London,
so that we may expect great changes to begin here soon. There have
been decorators and furnishers up from Plymouth, and it is evident
that our friend has large ideas and means to spare no pains or expense
to restore the grandeur of his family. Between ourselves there're
pretty clear signs that this won't be wanting if the lady is willing,
for I have seldom seen a man more infatuated with a woman than he's
with our beautiful neighbour, Stapleton. And yet truelove don't run
quite as smoothly as one would under the circumstances expect. Today,
for example, its surface was broken by a very unexpected ripple,
which's caused our friend considerable perplexity and annoyance.
After the conversation which I have quoted about Barrymore, Sir Henry
put on his hat and prepared to go out.   "What, are you coming,
Watson?"   "That depends on whether you're going on the moor," said I.
"Yes, I am." I am sorry to intrude, but you heard how earnestly Holmes
insisted that I shouldn't leave you, and especially that you shouldn't
go alone upon the moor."   Sir Henry put his hand upon my shoulder
with a pleasant smile. "My dear fellow," said he, "Holmes, with all
his wisdom, didn't foresee some things which have happened since I
have been on the moor. You understand me? I am sure that you're the
last man in the world who'd wish to be a spoil-sport.   I was at a
loss what to say or what to do, and before I had made up my mind he
picked up his cane and was gone.   But when I came to think the matter
over my conscience reproached me bitterly for having on any pretext
allowed him to go out of my sight. I imagined what my feelings would
be if I had to return to you and to confess that some misfortune had
occurred through my disregard for your instructions. It mightn't even
now be too late to overtake him, so I set off at once in the direction
of Merripit House.   I hurried along the road at the top of my speed
without seeing anything of Sir Henry, until I came to the point where
the moor path branches off. There, fearing that perhaps I had come in
the wrong direction after all, I mounted a hill from which I could
command a view—the same hill which's cut into the dark quarry. He was
on the moor path about a quarter of a mile off, and a lady was by his
side who could only be Stapleton. It was clear that there was already
an understanding between them and that they'd met by appointment.
They're walking slowly along in deep conversation, and I saw her
making quick little movements of her hands as if she were very earnest
in what she was saying, while he listened intently, and once or twice
shook his head in strong dissent. I stood among the rocks watching
them, much puzzled as to what I should do next. To follow them and
break into their intimate conversation seemed to be an outrage, and
yet my clear duty was never for an instant to let him out of my sight.
To act the spy upon a friend was a hateful task. Still, I could see
worse course than to observe him from the hill, and to clear my
conscience by confessing to him afterwards what I had done. It is true
that if any sudden danger had threatened him I was too far away to be
of use, and yet I am sure that you will agree with me that the
position was very difficult, and that there was nothing more which I
could do.   Our friend, Sir Henry, and the lady had halted on the path
and were standing deeply absorbed in their conversation, when I was
suddenly aware that I wasn't the only witness of their interview. A
wisp of green floating in the air caught my eye, and another glance
showed me that it was carried on a stick by a man who was moving among
the broken ground. He was much closer to the pair than I was, and he
appeared to be moving in their direction. At this instant Sir Henry
suddenly drew Stapleton to his side. His arm was round her, but it
seemed to me that she was straining away from him with her face
averted. He stooped his head to hers, and she raised one hand as if in
protest. Next moment I saw them spring apart and turn hurriedly round.
Stapleton was the cause of the interruption. He was running wildly
towards them, his absurd net dangling behind him. He gesticulated and
almost danced with excitement in front of the lovers. What the scene
meant I couldn't imagine, but it seemed to me that Stapleton was
abusing Sir Henry, who offered explanations, which became more angry
as the other refused to accept them. The lady stood by in haughty
silence. Finally Stapleton turned upon his heel and beckoned in a
peremptory way to his sister, who, after an irresolute glance at Sir
Henry, walked off next to her brother. The naturalist's angry gestures
showed that the lady was included in his displeasure. The baronet
stood for a minute looking after them, and then he walked slowly back
the way that he had come, his head hanging, the very picture of
dejection.   What'll this meant I couldn't imagine, but I was deeply
ashamed to have witnessed so intimate a scene without my friend's
knowledge. His face was flushed with anger and his brows were
wrinkled, like one who's at his wit's ends what to do.   "Halloa,
Watson! Where've you dropped from?" "You don't mean to say that you
came after me in spite of all?"   For an instant his eyes blazed at
me, but my frankness disarmed his anger, and he broke at last into a
rather rueful laugh.   "You would've thought the middle of that
prairie a fairly safe place for a man to be private," said he, "but,
by thunder, the whole countryside seems to have been out to see me do
my wooing—and a mighty poor wooing at that!   "I was on that hill."
"Quite in the back row, eh? But her brother was well up to the front.
"Yes, I did." "Did he ever strike you as being crazy—this brother of
hers?" "I can't say that he ever did." "I dare say not. I always
thought him sane enough until today, but you can take it from me that
either he or I ought to be in a straitjacket. You've lived near me for
some weeks, Watson. Tell me straight, now! Is there anything that
would prevent me from making a good husband to a woman that I loved?"
"I should say not." "He can't object to my worldly position, so it
must be myself that he's this down on. I never hurt man or woman in my
life that I know of. And yet he wouldn't so much as let me touch the
tips of her fingers."   "Did he say so?" I tell you, Watson, I've only
known her these few weeks, but from the first I just felt that she was
made for me, and she, too—she was happy when she was with me, and that
I'll swear. There's a light in a woman's eyes that speaks louder than
words. But he's never let's get together and it was only today for the
first time that I saw a chance of having a few words with her alone.
She was glad to meet me, but when she did 'twasn't love that she'd
talk about, and she wouldn't have let me talk about it either if she
could've stopped it. She kept coming back to it that this was a place
of danger, and that she'd never be happy until I had left it. I told
her that since I had seen her I was in no hurry to leave it, and that
if she really wanted me to go, the only way to work it was for her to
arrange to go with me. With that I offered in as many words to marry
her, but before she could answer, down came this brother of hers,
running at us with a face on him like a madman. He was just white with
rage, and those light eyes of his were blazing with fury. What was I
doing with the lady? How dared I offer her attentions which were
distasteful to her? Did I think that because I was a baronet I could
do what I liked? If he hadn't been her brother I should've known
better how to answer him. As it was I told him that my feelings
towards his sister were such as I wasn't ashamed of, and that I hoped
that she might honour me by becoming my wife. That seemed to make the
matter no better, so then I lost my temper too, and I answered him
rather more hotly than I should perhaps, considering that she was
standing by. So it ended by his going off with her, as you saw, and
here am I as badly puzzled a man as any in this county. Just tell me
what it all means, Watson, and I'll owe you more than ever I can hope
to pay."   Our friend's title, his fortune, his age, his character,
and his appearance are all in his favour, and I know nothing against
him unless it be this dark fate which runs in his family. That his
advances should be rejected so brusquely without any reference to the
lady's own wishes and that the lady should accept the situation
without protest is very amazing. However, our conjectures were set at
rest by a visit from Stapleton himself that very afternoon. He'd come
to offer apologies for his rudeness of the morning, and after a long
private interview with Sir Henry in his study the upshot of their
conversation was that the breach is quite healed, and that we're to
dine at Merripit House next Friday as a sign of it.   "I don't say now
that he isn't a crazy man," said Sir Henry; "I can't forget the look
in his eyes when he ran at me this morning, but I must allow that no
man could make a more handsome apology than he's done." "Did he give
any explanation of his conduct?" "His sister is everything in his
life, he says. That's natural enough, and I am glad that he should
understand her value. They've always been together, and according to
his account he's been a very lonely man with only her as a companion,
so that the thought of losing her was really terrible to him. He
hadn't understood, he said, that I was becoming attached to her, but
when he saw with his own eyes that it was really so, and that she
might be taken away from him, it gave him such a shock that for a time
he wasn't responsible for what he said or did. He was very sorry for
all that had passed, and he recognized how foolish and how selfish it
was that he should imagine that he could hold a beautiful woman like
his sister to himself for her whole life. But in any case it was a
blow to him and it'd take him sometime before he could prepare himself
to meet it. He'd withdraw all opposition upon his part if I'd promise
for three months to let the matter rest and to be content with
cultivating the lady's friendship during that time without claiming
her love. This I promised, and so the matter rests."   It is something
to have touched bottom anywhere in this bog in which we're
floundering. We know now why Stapleton looked with disfavour upon his
sister's suitor—even when that suitor was so eligible a one as Sir
Henry. And now I pass onto another thread which I have extricated out
of the tangled skein, the mystery of the sobs in the night, of the
tear-stained face of Barrymore, of the secret journey of the butler to
the western lattice window. Congratulate me, my dear Holmes, and tell
me that I haven't disappointed you as an agent—that you don't regret
the confidence which you showed in me when you sent me down. All these
things have by one night's work been thoroughly cleared.   I have said
"by one night's work," but, in truth, it was by two nights' work, for
on the first we drew entirely blank. I sat up with Sir Henry in his
rooms until nearly three o'clock in the morning, but no sound of any
sort did we hear except the chiming clock upon the stairs. It was a
most melancholy vigil and ended by each of us falling asleep in our
chairs. The next night we lowered the lamp and sat smoking cigarettes
without making the least sound. It was incredible how slowly the hours
crawled by, and yet we were helped through it by the same sort of
patient interest which the hunter must feel as he watches the trap
into which he hopes the game may wander. One struck, and two, and we'd
almost for the second time given it up in despair when in an instant
we both sat bolt upright in our chairs with all our weary senses
keenly on the alert once more. We'd heard the creak of a step in the
passage.   stealthily we heard it pass along until it died away in the
distance. Then the baronet gently opened his door and we set out in
pursuit. Already our man had gone round the gallery and the corridor
was all in darkness. We were just in time to catch a glimpse of the
tall, black-bearded figure, his shoulders rounded as he tiptoed down
the passage. Then he passed through the same door as before, and the
light of the candle framed it in the darkness and shot one single
yellow beam across the gloom of the corridor. We shuffled cautiously
towards it, trying every plank before we dared to put our whole weight
upon it. We'd taken the precaution of leaving our boots behind us,
but, even so, the old boards snapped and creaked beneath our tread.
Sometimes it seemed impossible that he should fail to hear our
approach. However, the man is fortunately rather deaf, and he was
entirely preoccupied in that which he was doing. When at last we
reached the door and peeped through we found him crouching at the
window, candle in hand, his white, intent face pressed against the
pane, as I had seen him two nights before.   He walked into the room,
and as he did so Barrymore sprang up from the window with a sharp hiss
of his breath and stood, livid and trembling, before us. His dark
eyes, glaring out of the white mask of his face, were full of horror
and astonishment as he gazed from Sir Henry to me.   "What are you
doing here, Barrymore?" His agitation was so great that he could
hardly speak, and the shadows sprang up and down from the shaking of
his candle. "It was the window, sir. I go round at night to see that
they're fastened."   "On the second floor?" "Yes, sir, all the
windows." "Look here, Barrymore," said Sir Henry sternly, "we have
made up our minds to have the truth out of you, so it'll save you
trouble to tell it sooner rather than later. No lies! What're you
doing at that window?"   The fellow looked at us in a helpless way,
and he wrung his hands together like one who's in the last extremity
of doubt and misery. I was holding a candle to the window."   "And why
were you holding a candle to the window?" I give you my word, sir,
that it isn't my secret, and that I cannot tell it. If it concerned no
one but myself I'd not try to keep it from you."   A sudden idea
occurred to me, and I took the candle from the trembling hand of the
butler. "He must've been holding it as a signal," said I. I held it as
he had done, and stared out into the darkness of the night. Vaguely I
could discern the black bank of the trees and the lighter expanse of
the moor, for the moon was behind the clouds. And then I gave a cry of
exultation, for a tiny pinpoint of yellow light had suddenly
transfixed the dark veil, and glowed steadily in the centre of the
black square framed by the window.   "There it is!" I cried. the
butler broke in; "I assure you, sir—"   "Move your light across the
window, Watson!" cried the baronet. Now, you rascal, do you deny that
it is a signal? Come, speak up! Who's your confederate out yonder, and
what's this conspiracy that's going on?"   The man's face became
openly defiant. "It is my business, and not yours.   "Then you leave
my employment right away." "Very good, sir.   By thunder, you may well
be ashamed of yourself. Your family has lived with mine for over a
hundred years under this roof, and here I find you deep in some dark
plot against me."   It was a woman's voice, and Barrymore, paler and
more horror-struck than her husband, was standing at the door. Her
bulky figure in a shawl and skirt might've been comic were it not for
the intensity of feeling upon her face.   This's the end of it. You
can pack our things," said the butler.   "Oh, John, John, have I
brought you to this? He's done nothing except for my sake and because
I asked him."   "Speak out, then! What's it mean?" "My unhappy brother
is starving on the moor. The light is a signal to him that food is
ready for him, and his light out yonder is to show the spot to which
to bring it."   "Then your brother is—" "The escaped convict,
sir—Selden, the criminal." "That's the truth, sir," said Barrymore.
But now you have heard it, and you will see that if there was a plot
'twasn't against you."   This, then, was the explanation of the
stealthy expeditions at night and the light at the window. Was it
possible that this stolidly respectable person was of the same blood
as one of the most notorious criminals in the country?   "Yes, sir, my
name was Selden, and he's my younger brother. We humoured him too much
when he was a lad and gave him his own way in everything until he came
to think that the world was made for his pleasure, and that he could
do what he liked in it. Then as he grew older he met wicked
companions, and the devil entered into him until he broke my mother's
heart and dragged our name in the dirt. From crime to crime he sank
lower and lower until it is only the mercy of God which's snatched him
from the scaffold; but to me, sir, he was always the little curly-
headed boy that I had nursed and played with as an elder sister would.
That was why he broke prison, sir. He knew that I was here and that we
couldn't refuse to help him. When he dragged himself here one night,
weary and starving, with the warders hard at his heels, what could we
do? Then you returned, sir, and my brother thought he'd be safer on
the moor than anywhere else until the hue and cry was over, so he lay
in hiding there. But every second night we made sure if he was still
thereby putting a light in the window, and if there was an answer my
husband took out some bread and meat to him. Everyday we hoped that he
was gone, but as long as he was there we couldn't desert him. That's
the whole truth, as I am an honest Christian woman and you will see
that if there is blame in the matter it don't lie with my husband but
with me, for whose sake he's done all that he has."   The woman's
words came with an intense earnestness which carried conviction with
them. "Is this true, Barrymore?" "Yes, Sir Henry.   "Well, I cannot
blame you for standing by your own wife. Go to your room, you two, and
we shall talk further about this matter in the morning."   Sir Henry
had flung it open, and the cold night wind beat in upon our faces. Far
away in the black distance there still glowed that one tiny point of
yellow light.   "I wonder he dares," said Sir Henry. "It maybe so
placed as to be only visible from here." "Very likely. How far do you
think it is?" "Out by the Cleft Tor, I think." "Not more than a mile
or two off." "Hardly that." And he's waiting, this villain, beside
that candle. By thunder, Watson, I am going out to take that man!"
The same thought had crossed my own mind. 'twasn't as if the
Barrymores had taken us into their confidence. The man was a danger to
the community, an unmitigated scoundrel for whom there was neither
pity nor excuse. We were only doing our duty in taking this chance of
putting him back where he could do no harm. With his brutal and
violent nature, others would hafta pay the price if we held our hands.
Any night, for example, our neighbours the Stapletons might be
attacked by him, and it may've been the thought of this which made Sir
Henry so keen upon the adventure.   "I will come," said I. The sooner
we start the better, as the fellow may put out his light and be off."
In five minutes we were outside the door, starting upon our
expedition. We hurried through the dark shrubbery, amid the dull
moaning of the autumn wind and the rustle of the falling leaves. The
night air was heavy with the smell of damp and decay. Now and again
the moon peeped out for an instant, but clouds were driving over the
face of the sky, and just as we came out on the moor a thin rain began
to fall.   "Are you armed?"   "I have a hunting-crop." "We must close
in on him rapidly, for he's said to be a desperate fellow.   How about
that hour of darkness in which the power of evil is exalted?"   As if
in answer to his words there rose suddenly out of the vast gloom of
the moor that strange cry which I had already heard upon the borders
of the great Grimpen Mire. It came with the wind through the silence
of the night, a long, deep mutter, then a rising howl, and then the
sad moan in which it died away. The baronet caught my sleeve and his
face glimmered white through the darkness.   "My God, what's that,
Watson?" It's a sound they've on the moor. I heard it once before."
It died away, and an absolute silence closed in upon us.   "Watson,"
said the baronet, "it was the cry of a hound." My blood ran cold in my
veins, for there was a break in his voice which told of the sudden
horror which had seized him. "What do they call this sound?"   "Who?"
"The folk on the countryside." "Oh, they're ignorant people.   "Tell
me, Watson. What do they say of it?" I hesitated but could not escape
the question. "They say it is the cry of the Hound of the
Baskervilles." He groaned and was silent for a few moments. "A hound
it was," he said at last, "but it seemed to come from miles away, over
yonder, I think." "It was hard to say whence it came." Isn't that the
direction of the great Grimpen Mire?"   "Yes, it is." Come now,
Watson, didn't you think yourself that it was the cry of a hound? I
amn't a child. You needn't fear to speak the truth."   He said that it
might be the calling of a strange bird."   "No, no, it was a hound. My
God, can there be some truth in all these stories? Is it possible that
I am really in danger from so dark a cause?   "No, no." "And yet it
was one thing to laugh about it in London, and it is another to
standout herein the darkness of the moor and to hear such a cry as
that. And my uncle! There was the footprint of the hound beside him as
he lay. I don't think that I am a coward, Watson, but that sound
seemed to freeze my very blood. Feel my hand!"   It was as cold as a
block of marble. "You'll be all right tomorrow." "I don't think I'll
get that cry out of my head.   "Shall we turn back?" "No, by thunder;
we have come out to get our man, and we'll do it. We after the
convict, and a hell-hound, as likely as not, after us. We'll see it
through if all the fiends of the pit were loose upon the moor."   We
stumbled slowly along in the darkness, with the black loom of the
craggy hills around us, and the yellow speck of light burning steadily
in front. There's nothing so deceptive as the distance of a light upon
a pitch-dark night, and sometimes the glimmer seemed to be far away
upon the horizon and sometimes it might've been within a few yards of
us. A guttering candle was stuck in a crevice of the rocks which
flanked it on each side so as to keep the wind from it and also to
prevent it from being visible, save in the direction of Baskerville
Hall. A boulder of granite concealed our approach, and crouching
behind it we gazed over it at the signal light. It was strange to see
this single candle burning therein the middle of the moor, with no
sign of life near it—just the one straight yellow flame and the gleam
of the rock on each side of it.   whispered Sir Henry.   He must be
near his light. Let's see if we can get a glimpse of him."   Over the
rocks, in the crevice of which the candle burned, there was thrust out
an evil yellow face, a terrible animal face, all seamed and scored
with vile passions. Foul with mire, with a bristling beard, and hung
with matted hair, it might well have belonged to one of those old
savages who dwelt in the burrows on the hillsides. The light beneath
him was reflected in his small, cunning eyes which peered fiercely to
right and left through the darkness like a crafty and savage animal
who's heard the steps of the hunters.   It may've been that Barrymore
had some private signal which we'd neglected to give, or the fellow
may've had some other reason for thinking that all wasn't well, but I
could read his fears upon his wicked face. Any instant he might dash
out the light and vanish in the darkness. I sprang forward therefore,
and Sir Henry did the same. At the same moment the convict screamed
out a curse at us and hurled a rock which splintered up against the
boulder which had sheltered us. I caught one glimpse of his short,
squat, strongly built figure as he sprang to his feet and turned to
run. At the same moment by a lucky chance the moon broke through the
clouds. We rushed over the brow of the hill, and there was our man
running with great speed down the other side, springing over the
stones in his way with the activity of a mountain goat. A lucky long
shot of my revolver might've crippled him, but I had brought it only
to defend myself if attacked and not to shoot an unarmed man who was
running away.   We were both swift runners and in fairly good
training, but we soon found that we'd no chance of overtaking him. We
saw him for a long time in the moonlight until he was only a small
speck moving swiftly among the boulders upon the side of a distant
hill. Finally we stopped and sat panting on two rocks, while we
watched him disappearing in the distance.   And it was at this moment
that there occurred a most strange and unexpected thing. We'd risen
from our rocks and were turning to go home, having abandoned the
hopeless chase. The moon was low upon the right, and the jagged
pinnacle of a granite tor stood up against the lower curve of its
silver disc. There, outlined as black as an ebony statue on that
shining background, I saw the figure of a man upon the tor. Don't
think that it was a delusion, Holmes. I assure you that I have never
in my life seen anything more clearly. As far as I could judge, the
figure was that of a tall, thin man. He stood with his legs a little
separated, his arms folded, his head bowed, as if he were brooding
over that enormous wilderness of peat and granite which lay before
him. He might've been the very spirit of that terrible place. This man
was far from the place where the latter had disappeared. Besides, he
was a much taller man. With a cry of surprise I pointed him out to the
baronet, but in the instant during which I had turned to grasp his arm
the man was gone. There was the sharp pinnacle of granite still
cutting the lower edge of the moon, but its peak bore no trace of that
silent and motionless figure.   I wished to go in that direction and
to search the tor, but it was some distance away. The baronet's nerves
were still quivering from that cry, which recalled the dark story of
his family, and he wasn't in the mood for fresh adventures. He'd not
seen this lonely man upon the tor and could not feel the thrill which
his strange presence and his commanding attitude had given to me. "A
warder, no doubt," said he. "The moor has been thick with them since
this fellow escaped." Well, perhaps his explanation maybe the right
one, but I should like to have some further proof of it. Today we mean
to communicate to the Princetown people where they should look for
their missing man, but it is hard lines that we haven't actually had
the triumph of bringing him back as our own prisoner. Such are the
adventures of last night, and you must acknowledge, my dear Holmes,
that I have done you very well in the matter of a report. Much of what
I tell you is no doubt quite irrelevant, but still I feel that it is
best that I should let you have all the facts and leave you to select
for yourself those which will be of most service to you in helping you
to your conclusions. We're certainly making some progress. So far as
the Barrymores go we have found the motive of their actions, and
that's cleared up the situation very much. But the moor with its
mysteries and its strange inhabitants remains as inscrutable as ever.
Perhaps in my next I may be able to throw some light upon this also.
In any case you will hear from me again in the next few days.
Chapter 10. Extract from the Diary of Dr. Watson So far I have been
able to quote from the reports which I have forwarded during these
early days to Sherlock Holmes. Now, however, I have arrived at a point
in my narrative where I am compelled to abandon this method and to
trust again to my recollections, aided by the diary which I kept at
the time. I proceed, then, from the morning which followed our
abortive chase of the convict and our other strange experiences upon
the moor.   October 16th.—A dull and foggy day with a drizzle of rain.
The house is banked in with rolling clouds, which rise now and then to
show the dreary curves of the moor, with thin, silver veins upon the
sides of the hills, and the distant boulders gleaming where the light
strikes upon their wet faces. The baronet is in a black reaction after
the excitements of the night. I am conscious myself of a weight at my
heart and a feeling of impending danger—ever present danger, which's
the more terrible because I am unable to define it.   Consider the
long sequence of incidents which have all pointed to some sinister
influence which's at work around us. There's the death of the last
occupant of the Hall, fulfilling so exactly the conditions of the
family legend, and there're the repeated reports from peasants of the
appearance of a strange creature upon the moor. Twice I have with my
own ears heard the sound which resembled the distant baying of a
hound. It is incredible, impossible, that it should really be outside
the ordinary laws of nature. A spectral hound which leaves material
footmarks and fills the air with its howling is surely not to be
thought of. Stapleton may fall in with such a superstition, and
Mortimer also, but if I have one quality upon earth it is common
sense, and nothing will persuade me to believe in such a thing. To do
so would be to descend to the level of these poor peasants, who aren't
content with a mere fiend dog but must needs describe him with hell-
fire shooting from his mouth and eyes. Holmes wouldn't listen to such
fancies, and I am his agent. But facts are facts, and I have twice
heard this crying upon the moor. Suppose that there were really some
huge hound loose upon it; that would go far to explain everything. But
where could such a hound lie concealed, where'd it get its food,
where'd it come from, how was it that no one saw it by day? It must be
confessed that the natural explanation offers almost as many
difficulties as the other. And always, apart from the hound, there is
the fact of the human agency in London, the man in the cab, and the
letter which warned Sir Henry against the moor. This at least was
real, but it might've been the work of a protecting friend as easily
as of an enemy. Where's that friend or enemy now? Has he remained in
London, or has he followed us down here? Could he—could he be the
stranger whom I saw upon the tor?   It is true that I have had only
the one glance at him, and yet there're some things to which I am
ready to swear. He's no one whom I have seen down here, and I have now
met all the neighbours. The figure was far taller than that of
Stapleton, far thinner than that of Frankland. Barrymore it might
possibly have been, but we'd left him behind us, and I am certain that
he couldn't've followed us. A stranger then is still dogging us, just
as a stranger dogged us in London. If I could lay my hands upon that
man, then at last we might find ourselves at the end of all our
difficulties. To this one purpose I must now devote all my energies.
My first impulse was to tell Sir Henry all my plans. My second and
wisest one is to play my own game and speak as little as possible to
anyone. His nerves have been strangely shaken by that sound upon the
moor. I'll say nothing to add to his anxieties, but I'll take my own
steps to attain my own end.   We'd a small scene this morning after
breakfast. Barrymore asked leave to speak with Sir Henry, and they're
closeted in his study some little time. Sitting in the billiard-room I
more than once heard the sound of voices raised, and I had a pretty
good idea what the point was which was under discussion. After a time
the baronet opened his door and called for me. "He thinks that it was
unfair on our part to hunt his brother-in-law down when he, of his own
free will, had told us the secret."   The butler was standing very
pale but very collected before us. At the same time, I was much
surprised when I heard you two gentlemen comeback this morning and
learned that you'd been chasing Selden. The poor fellow has enough to
fight against without my putting more upon his track."   "If you'd
told us of your own free will it'd have been a different thing," said
the baronet, "you only told us, or rather your wife only told us, when
it was forced from you and you could not help yourself." "I didn't
think you would've taken advantage of it, Sir Henry—indeed I didn't."
"The man is a public danger. There're lonely houses scattered over the
moor, and he's a fellow who'd stick at nothing. Look at Mr.
Stapleton's house, for example, with no one but himself to defend it.
There's no safety for anyone until he's under lock and key."   "He'll
break into no house, sir. I give you my solemn word upon that. I
assure you, Sir Henry, that in a very few days the necessary
arrangements will have been made and he'll be on his way to South
America. For God's sake, sir, I beg of you not to let the police know
that he's still on the moor. They've given up the chase there, and he
can lie quiet until the ship is ready for him. You can't tell on him
without getting my wife and me into trouble. I beg you, sir, to say
nothing to the police."   "What do you say, Watson?" "If he were
safely out of the country it'd relieve the tax-payer of a burden."
"But how about the chance of his holding someone up before he goes?"
"He wouldn't do anything so mad, sir. To commit a crime would be to
show where he was hiding."   "That is true," said Sir Henry.   "God
bless you, sir, and thank you from my heart!   "I guess we're aiding
and abetting a felony, Watson? But, after what we have heard I don't
feel as if I could give the man up, so there is an end of it.   With a
few broken words of gratitude the man turned, but he hesitated and
then came back. I know something, Sir Henry, and perhaps I should've
said it before, but it was long after the inquest that I found it out.
I've never breathed a word about it yet to mortal man. It's about poor
Sir Charles's death."   The baronet and I were both upon our feet.
"No, sir, I don't know that." "What then?" It was to meet a woman."
"To meet a woman!   "Yes, sir." "And the woman's name?" "I can't give
you the name, sir, but I can give you the initials.   "How do you know
this, Barrymore?" "Well, Sir Henry, your uncle had a letter that
morning. He'd usually a great many letters, for he was a public man
and well known for his kind heart, so that everyone who was in trouble
was glad to turn to him. It was from Coombe Tracey, and it was
addressed in a woman's hand."   "Well?" "Well, sir, I thought no more
of the matter, and never would've done had it not been for my wife.
Only a few weeks ago she was cleaning out Sir Charles's study—it had
never been touched since his death—and she found the ashes of a burned
letter in the back of the grate. The greater part of it was charred to
pieces, but one little slip, the end of a page, hung together, and the
writing could still be read, though it was grey on a black ground. It
seemed to us to be a postscript at the end of the letter and it said:
'Please, please, as you're a gentleman, burn this letter, and be at
the gate by ten o clock.   "Have you got that slip?" "No, sir, it
crumbled all to bits after we moved it." "Had Sir Charles received any
other letters in the same writing?" "Well, sir, I took no particular
notice of his letters.   "And you have no idea who L. L. is?" "No,
sir. But I expect if we could lay our hands upon that lady we should
know more about Sir Charles's death."   "I cannot understand,
Barrymore, how you came to conceal this important information." "Well,
sir, it was immediately after that our own trouble came to us. And
then again, sir, we were both of us very fond of Sir Charles, as we
well might be considering all that he's done for us. To rake this up
couldn't help our poor master, and it's well to go carefully when
there's a lady in the case.   "You thought it might injure his
reputation?" But now you have been kind to us, and I feel as if it'd
be treating you unfairly not to tell y'all that I know about the
matter."   When the butler had left us Sir Henry turned to me. "Well,
Watson, what do you think of this new light?"   "It seems to leave the
darkness rather blacker than before." "So I think. But if we can only
trace L. L. it should clear up the whole business. We've gained that
much. We know that there is someone who's the facts if we can only
find her.   It'll give him the clue for which he has been seeking. I
am much mistaken if it don't bring him down."   I went at once to my
room and drew up my report of the morning's conversation for Holmes.
It was evident to me that he had been very busy of late, for the notes
which I had from Baker Street were few and short, with no comments
upon the information which I had supplied and hardly any reference to
my mission. No doubt his blackmailing case is absorbing all his
faculties. And yet this new factor must surely arrest his attention
and renew his interest.   October 17th.—All day today the rain poured
down, rustling on the ivy and dripping from the eaves. I thought of
the convict out upon the bleak, cold, shelterless moor. Whatever his
crimes, he has suffered something to atone for them. And then I
thought of that other one—the face in the cab, the figure against the
moon. Was he also out in that deluged—the unseen watcher, the man of
darkness? In the evening I put on my waterproof and I walked far upon
the sodden moor, full of dark imaginings, the rain beating upon my
face and the wind whistling about my ears. God help those who wander
into the great mire now, for even the firm uplands are becoming a
morass. I found the black tor upon which I had seen the solitary
watcher, and from its craggy summit I looked out myself across the
melancholy downs. Rain squalls drifted across their russet face, and
the heavy, slate-coloured clouds hung low over the landscape, trailing
in grey wreaths down the sides of the fantastic hills. In the distant
hollow on the left, half hidden by the mist, the two thin towers of
Baskerville Hall rose above the trees. They're the only signs of human
life which I could see, save only those prehistoric huts which lay
thickly upon the slopes of the hills. Nowhere was there any trace of
that lonely man whom I had seen on the same spot two nights before.
As I walked back I was overtaken by Dr. Mortimer driving in his dog-
cart over a rough moorland track which led from the outlying farmhouse
of Foulmire. He's been very attentive to us, and hardly a day has
passed that he hasn't called at the Hall to see how we were getting
on. He insisted upon my climbing into his dog-cart, and he gave me a
lift homeward. I found him much troubled over the disappearance of his
little spaniel. I gave him such consolation as I might, but I thought
of the pony on the Grimpen Mire, and I don't fancy that he'll see his
little dog again.   "By the way, Mortimer," said I as we jolted along
the rough road, "I suppose there're few people living within driving
distance of this whom you don't know?" "Hardly any, I think." "Can
you, then, tell me the name of any woman whose initials are L.   He
thought for a few minutes. "There are a few gipsies and labouring folk
for whom I can't answer, but among the farmers or gentry there is no
one whose initials are those. Wait a bit though," he added after a
pause. "There is Laura Lyons—her initials are L. L.—but she lives in
Coombe Tracey."   "Who is she?" I asked. "She is Frankland's
daughter." Old Frankland the crank?"   She married an artist named
Lyons, who came sketching on the moor. He proved to be a blackguard
and deserted her. The fault from what I hear mayn't have been entirely
on one side. Her father refused to have anything to do with her
because she had married without his consent and perhaps for a few
other reasons as well. So, between the old sinner and the young one
the girl has had a pretty bad time."   "How does she live?" "I fancy
old Frankland allows her a pittance, but it cannot be more, for his
own affairs are considerably involved. Whatever she may've deserved
one could not allow her to go hopelessly to the bad. Her story got
about, and several of the people here did something to enable her to
earn an honest living. Stapleton did for one, and Sir Charles for
another. It was to set her up in a typewriting business."   He wanted
to know the object of my inquiries, but I managed to satisfy his
curiosity without telling him too much, for there is no reason why we
should take anyone into our confidence. Tomorrow morning I shall find
my way to Coombe Tracey, and if I can see this Laura Lyons, of
equivocal reputation, a long step will have been made towards clearing
one incident in this chain of mysteries. I am certainly developing the
wisdom of the serpent, for when Mortimer pressed his questions to an
inconvenient extent I asked him casually to what type Frankland's
skull belonged, and so heard nothing but craniology for the rest of
our drive.   This was my conversation with Barrymore just now, which
gives me one more strong card which I can play in due time.   The
butler brought me my coffee into the library, and I took the chance to
ask him a few questions.   "Well," said I, "has this precious relation
of yours departed, or is he still lurking out yonder?" I hope to
heaven that he has gone, for he has brought nothing but trouble here!
I've not heard of him since I left out food for him last, and that was
three days ago."   "Did you see him then?" "No, sir, but the food was
gone when next I went that way." "Then he was certainly there?" "So
you'd think, sir, unless it was the other man who took it." I sat with
my coffee-cup halfway to my lips and stared at Barrymore. "You know
that there is another man then?" "Yes, sir; there is another man upon
the moor." "Have you seen him?" "No, sir." "How do you know of him
then?" "Selden told me of him, sir, a week ago or more. He's in
hiding, too, but he's not a convict as far as I can make out. He spoke
with a sudden passion of earnestness.   "Now, listen to me, Barrymore!
I have no interest in this matter but that of your master. I have come
herewith no object except to help him.   Barrymore hesitated for a
moment, as if he regretted his outburst or found it difficult to
express his own feelings in words. "It's all these goings-on, sir," he
cried at last, waving his hand towards the rain-lashed window which
faced the moor. "There's foul play somewhere, and there's black
villainy brewing, to that I'll swear!   "But what's it that alarms
you?" "Look at Sir Charles's death! That was bad enough, for all that
the coroner said. Look at the noises on the moor at night. There's not
a man would cross it after sundown if he was paid for it. Look at this
stranger hiding out yonder, and watching and waiting! What's he
waiting for? It means no good to anyone of the name of Baskerville,
and very glad I shall be to be quit of it all on the day that Sir
Henry's new servants are ready to takeover the Hall."   "But about
this stranger," said I. What'd Selden say? Did he find out where he
hid, or what he was doing?"   At first he thought that he was the
police, but soon he found that he had some lay of his own. A kind of
gentleman he was, as far as he could see, but what he was doing he
could not make out."   "And where'd he say that he lived?" "Among the
old houses on the hillside—the stone huts where the old folk used to
live." "But how about his food?" "Selden found out that he has got a
lad who works for him and brings all he needs.   "Very good,
Barrymore. When the butler had gone I walked over to the black window,
and I looked through a blurred pane at the driving clouds and at the
tossing outline of the wind-swept trees. It is a wild night indoors,
and what must it be in a stone hut upon the moor. What passion of
hatred can it be which leads a man to lurk in such a place at such a
time! And what deep and earnest purpose can he've which calls for such
a trial! There, in that hut upon the moor, seems to lie the very
centre of that problem which's vexed me so sorely. I swear that
another day shan't have passed before I have done all that man can do
to reach the heart of the mystery.   Chapter 11. The Man on the Tor
The extract from my private diary which forms the last chapter has
brought my narrative up to the eighteenth of October, a time when
these strange events began to move swiftly towards their terrible
conclusion. I start them from the day which succeeded that upon which
I had established two facts of great importance, the one that Laura
Lyons of Coombe Tracey had written to Sir Charles Baskerville and made
an appointment with him at the very place and hour that he met his
death, the other that the lurking man upon the moor was to be found
among the stone huts upon the hillside. With these two facts in my
possession I felt that either my intelligence or my courage must be
deficient if I could not throw some further light upon these dark
places.   I had no opportunity to tell the baronet what I had learned
about Lyons upon the evening before, for Dr. Mortimer remained with
him at cards until it was very late. At breakfast, however, I informed
him about my discovery and asked him whether he'd care to accompany me
to Coombe Tracey. The more formal we made the visit the less
information we might obtain. I left Sir Henry behind, therefore, not
without some prickings of conscience, and drove off upon my new quest.
When I reached Coombe Tracey I told Perkins to put up the horses, and
I made inquiries for the lady whom I had come to interrogate. A maid
showed me in without ceremony, and as I entered the sitting-room a
lady, who was sitting before a Remington typewriter, sprang up with a
pleasant smile of welcome. Her face fell, however, when she saw that I
was a stranger, and she sat down again and asked me the object of my
visit.   The first impression left by Lyons was one of extreme beauty.
Her eyes and hair were of the same rich hazel colour, and her cheeks,
though considerably freckled, were flushed with the exquisite bloom of
the brunette, the dainty pink which lurks at the heart of the sulphur
rose. Admiration was, I repeat, the first impression. But the second
was criticism. There was something subtly wrong with the face, some
coarseness of expression, some hardness, perhaps, of eye, some
looseness of lip which marred its perfect beauty. At the moment I was
simply conscious that I was in the presence of a very handsome woman,
and that she was asking me the reasons for my visit. I hadn't quite
understood until that instant how delicate my mission was.   "I have
the pleasure," said I, "of knowing your father." It was a clumsy
introduction, and the lady made me feel it. "I owe him nothing, and
his friends aren't mine. If it weren't for the late Sir Charles
Baskerville and some other kind hearts I might've starved for all that
my father cared."   "It was about the late Sir Charles Baskerville
that I have come hereto see you." The freckles started out on the
lady's face. she asked, and her fingers played nervously over the
stops of her typewriter.   "You knew him, did you not?" If I am able
to support myself it is largely due to the interest which he took in
my unhappy situation."   "Did you correspond with him?" The lady
looked quickly up with an angry gleam in her hazel eyes. she asked
sharply.   "The object is to avoid a public scandal.   At last she
looked up with something reckless and defiant in her manner.   "Well,
I'll answer," she said.   "Did you correspond with Sir Charles?" "I
certainly wrote to him once or twice to acknowledge his delicacy and
his generosity." "Have you the dates of those letters?" "No." "Have
you ever met him?" He was a very retiring man, and he preferred to do
good by stealth."   "But if you saw him so seldom and wrote so seldom,
how'd he know enough about your affairs to be able to help you, as you
say that he has done?" She met my difficulty with the utmost
readiness. One was Mr. Stapleton, a neighbour and intimate friend of
Sir Charles's. He was exceedingly kind, and it was through him that
Sir Charles learned about my affairs."   I knew already that Sir
Charles Baskerville had made Stapleton his almoner upon several
occasions, so the lady's statement bore the impress of truth upon it.
"Did you ever write to Sir Charles asking him to meet you?"   Lyons
flushed with anger again.   "I am sorry, madam, but I must repeat it."
"Then I answer, certainly not." "Not on the very day of Sir Charles's
death?" The flush had faded in an instant, and a deathly face was
before me.   "Surely your memory deceives you," said I. It ran
'Please, please, as you are a gentleman, burn this letter, and be at
the gate by ten o'clock.'"   I thought that she had fainted, but she
recovered herself by a supreme effort. "Is there no such thing as a
gentleman?"   "You do Sir Charles an injustice. He did burn the
letter. But sometimes a letter may be legible even when burned.
"Yes, I did write it," she cried, pouring out her soul in a torrent of
words. "I did write it. Why should I deny it? I have no reason to be
ashamed of it. I believed that if I had an interview I could gain his
help, so I asked him to meet me."   "But why at such an hour?"
"Because I had only just learned that he was finna London next day and
might be away for months.   "But why a rendezvous in the garden
instead of a visit to the house?" "Do you think a woman could go alone
at that hour to a bachelor's house?" "Well, what happened when you did
get there?" "I never went." "Mrs.   "No, I swear it to you on all I
hold sacred. Something intervened to prevent my going."   "What was
that?" "That is a private matter.   "You acknowledge then that you
made an appointment with Sir Charles at the very hour and place at
which he met his death, but you deny that you kept the appointment."
"That is the truth." Again and again I cross-questioned her, but I
could never get past that point. "Mrs. Lyons," said I as I rose from
this long and inconclusive interview, "you are taking a very great
responsibility and putting yourself in a very false position by not
making an clean breast of all that you know. If your position is
innocent, why did you in the first instance deny having written to Sir
Charles upon that date?"   "Because I feared that some false
conclusion might be drawn from it and that I might find myself
involved in a scandal." "And why were you so pressing that Sir Charles
should destroy your letter?" "If you have read the letter you will
know." "I didn't say that I had read all the letter." "You quoted some
of it." The letter had, as I said, been burned and 'twasn't all
legible. I ask you again why it was that you were so pressing that Sir
Charles should destroy this letter which he received on the day of his
death."   "The matter is a very private one." "The more reason why you
should avoid a public investigation." If you have heard anything of my
unhappy history you will know that I made a rash marriage and had
reason to regret it."   "I have heard so much." "My life has been one
incessant persecution from a husband whom I abhor. The law is upon his
side, and everyday I am faced by the possibility that he may force me
to live with him. At the time that I wrote this letter to Sir Charles
I had learned that there was a prospect of my regaining my freedom if
certain expenses could be met. I knew Sir Charles's generosity, and I
thought that if he heard the story from my own lips he'd help me."
"Then how's it that you didn't go?" "Because I received help in the
interval from another source." "Why then, did you not write to Sir
Charles and explain this?" "So I should've done had I not seen his
death in the paper next morning." I could only check it by finding if
she had, indeed, instituted divorce proceedings against her husband at
or about the time of the tragedy.   It was unlikely that she'd dare to
say that she hadn't been to Baskerville Hall if she really had been,
for a trap would be necessary to take her there, and couldn't've
returned to Coombe Tracey until the early hours of the morning. Such
an excursion could not be kept secret. I came away baffled and
disheartened. Again I had reached that dead wall which seemed to be
built across every path by which I tried to get at the object of my
mission. And yet the more I thought of the lady's face and of her
manner the more I felt that something was being held back from me. Why
should she turn so pale? Why should she fight against every admission
until it was forced from her? Why should she have been so reticent at
the time of the tragedy? Surely the explanation of all this could not
be as innocent as she'd have me believe. For the moment I could
proceed no farther in that direction, but must turn back to that other
clue which was to be sought for among the stone huts upon the moor.
And that was a most vague direction. I realised it as I drove back and
noted how hill after hill showed traces of the ancient people.
Barrymore's only indication had been that the stranger lived in one of
these abandoned huts, and many hundreds of them are scattered
throughout the length and breadth of the moor. But I had my own
experience for a guide since it had shown me the man himself standing
upon the summit of the Black Tor. From there I should explore every
hut upon the moor until I lighted upon the right one. If this man were
inside it I should find out from his own lips, at the point of my
revolver if necessary, who he was and why he had dogged us so long. He
might slip away from us in the crowd of Regent Street, but it'd puzzle
him to do so upon the lonely moor. On the other hand, if I should find
the hut and its tenant shouldn't be within it I must remain there,
however long the vigil, until he returned. Holmes had missed him in
London. It'd indeed be a triumph for me if I could run him to earth
where my master had failed.   And the messenger of good fortune was
none other than Mr. Frankland, who was standing, grey-whiskered and
red-faced, outside the gate of his garden, which opened onto the
highroad along which I travelled.   "Good-day, Dr. Watson," cried he
with unwonted good humour, "you must really give your horses a rest
and come into have a glass of wine and to congratulate me." My
feelings towards him were very far from being friendly after what I
had heard of his treatment of his daughter, but I was anxious to send
Perkins and the wagonette home, and the opportunity was a good one. I
alighted and sent a message to Sir Henry that I should walk over in
time for dinner.   "It is a great day for me, sir—one of the red-
letter days of my life," he cried with many chuckles. "I have brought
off a double event. I mean to teach them in these parts that law is
law, and that there is a man here who's not fear to invoke it. I have
established a right of way through the centre of old Middleton's park,
slap across it, sir, within a hundred yards of his own front door.
We'll teach these magnates that they cannot ride roughshod over the
rights of the commoners, confound them! And I've closed the wood where
the Fernworthy folk used to picnic. These infernal people seem to
think that there're no rights of property, and that they can swarm
where they like with their papers and their bottles. Both cases
decided, Dr. Watson, and both in my favour. I haven't had such a day
since I had Sir John Morland for trespass because he shot in his own
warren."   "How on earth did you do that?" It'll repay
reading—Frankland v. Morland, Court of Queen's Bench. It cost me £200,
but I got my verdict."   "Did it do you any good?" I am proud to say
that I had no interest in the matter. I act entirely from a sense of
public duty. I have no doubt, for example, that the Fernworthy people
will burn me in effigy tonight. I told the police last time they did
it that they should stop these disgraceful exhibitions. The County
Constabulary is in a scandalous state, sir, and it's not afforded me
the protection to which I am entitled. The case of Frankland v. Regina
will bring the matter before the attention of the public. I told them
that they'd have occasion to regret their treatment of me, and already
my words have come true."   "How so?" I asked. "Because I could tell
them what they're dying to know; but nothing would induce me to help
the rascals in any way."   I had seen enough of the contrary nature of
the old sinner to understand that any strong sign of interest would be
the surest way to stop his confidences.   "Some poaching case, no
doubt?"   "Ha, ha, my boy, a much more important matter than that!   I
stared. "You don't mean that you know where he is?" said I. Has it
never struck you that the way to catch that man was to find out where
he got his food and so trace it to him?"   He certainly seemed to be
getting uncomfortably near the truth.   "I know it because I have seen
with my own eyes the messenger who takes him his food." It was a
serious thing to be in the power of this spiteful old busybody. But
his next remark took a weight from my mind.   "You'll be surprised to
hear that his food is taken to him by a child. He passes along the
same path at the same hour, and to whom should he be going except to
the convict?"   Here was luck indeed! And yet I suppressed all
appearance of interest. Barrymore had said that our unknown was
supplied by a boy. It was on his track, and not upon the convict's,
that Frankland had stumbled. If I could get his knowledge it might
save me a long and weary hunt. But incredulity and indifference were
evidently my strongest cards.   "I should say that it was much more
likely that it was the son of one of the moorland shepherds taking out
his father's dinner." His eyes looked malignantly at me, and his grey
whiskers bristled like those of an angry cat.   said he, pointing out
over the wide-stretching moor. "Do you see that Black Tor over yonder?
Well, do you see the low hill beyond with the thornbush upon it? It is
the stoniest part of the whole moor. Is that a place where a shepherd
would be likely to take his station? Your suggestion, sir, is a most
absurd one."   I meekly answered that I had spoken without knowing all
the facts.   "You may be sure, sir, that I have very good grounds
before I come to an opinion. Every day, and sometimes twice a day, I
have been able—but wait a moment, Dr. Watson. Do my eyes deceive me,
or is thereat the present moment something moving upon that hillside?"
It was several miles off, but I could distinctly see a small dark dot
against the dull green and grey. cried Frankland, rushing upstairs.
"You will see with your own eyes and judge for yourself."   The
telescope, a formidable instrument mounted upon a tripod, stood upon
the flat leads of the house.   "Quick, Dr. Watson, quick, before he
passes over the hill!" There he was, sure enough, a small urchin with
a little bundle upon his shoulder, toiling slowly up the hill. When he
reached the crest I saw the ragged uncouth figure outlined for an
instant against the cold blue sky. He looked round him with a furtive
and stealthy air, as one who dreads pursuit.   "Well! Am I right?"
"Certainly, there is a boy who seems to have some secret errand." "And
what the errand is even a county constable could guess. But not one
word shall they've from me, and I bind you to secrecy also, Dr.
Watson. Not a word!   "Just as you wish." When the facts come out in
Frankland v. Regina I venture to think that a thrill of indignation
will run through the country. Nothing would induce me to help the
police in any way. For all they cared it might've been me, instead of
my effigy, which these rascals burned at the stake. Surely you aren't
going! You'll help me to empty the decanter in honour of this great
occasion!"   I kept the road as long as his eye was on me, and then I
struck off across the moor and made for the stony hill over which the
boy had disappeared. Everything was working in my favour, and I swore
that it shouldn't be through lack of energy or perseverance that I
should miss the chance which fortune had thrown in my way.   The sun
was already sinking when I reached the summit of the hill, and the
long slopes beneath me were all golden-green on one side and grey
shadow on the other. A haze lay low upon the farthest sky-line, out of
which jutted the fantastic shapes of Belliver and Vixen Tor. Over the
wide expanse there was no sound and no movement. One great grey bird,
a gull or curlew, soared aloft in the blue heaven. He and I seemed to
be the only living things between the huge arch of the sky and the
desert beneath it. The barren scene, the sense of loneliness, and the
mystery and urgency of my task all struck a chill into my heart. But
down beneath me in a cleft of the hills there was a circle of the old
stone huts, and in the middle of them there was one which retained
sufficient roof to act as a screen against the weather. My heart
leaped within me as I saw it. This must be the burrow where the
stranger lurked. At last my foot was on the threshold of his hiding
place—his secret was within my grasp.   As I approached the hut,
walking as warily as Stapleton would do when with poised net he drew
near the settled butterfly, I satisfied myself that the place had
indeed been used as a habitation. A vague pathway among the boulders
led to the dilapidated opening which served as a door. All was silent
within. The unknown might be lurking there, or he might be prowling on
the moor. My nerves tingled with the sense of adventure. Throwing
aside my cigarette, I closed my hand upon the butt of my revolver and,
walking swiftly up to the door, I looked in.   But there were ample
signs that I hadn't come upon a false scent. Some blankets rolled in a
waterproof lay upon that very stone slab upon which Neolithic man had
once slumbered. The ashes of a fire were heaped in a rude grate.
Beside it lay some cooking utensils and a bucket half-full of water. A
litter of empty tins showed that the place had been occupied for some
time, and I saw, as my eyes became accustomed to the checkered light,
a pannikin and a half-full bottle of spirits standing in the corner.
In the middle of the hut a flat stone served the purpose of a table,
and upon this stood a small cloth bundle—the same, no doubt, which I
had seen through the telescope upon the shoulder of the boy. It
contained a loaf of bread, a tinned tongue, and two tins of preserved
peaches. As I set it down again, after having examined it, my heart
leaped to see that beneath it there lay a sheet of paper with writing
upon it. I raised it, and this was what I read, roughly scrawled in
pencil: "Dr. Watson has gone to Coombe Tracey."   For a minute I stood
there with the paper in my hands thinking out the meaning of this curt
message. It was I, then, and not Sir Henry, who was being dogged by
this secret man. Possibly I had taken no step since I had been upon
the moor which hadn't been observed and reported. Always there was
this feeling of an unseen force, a fine net drawn round us with
infinite skill and delicacy, holding us so lightly that it was only at
some supreme moment that one realised that one was indeed entangled in
its meshes.   If there was one report there might be others, so I
looked round the hut in search of them. There was no trace, however,
of anything of the kind, nor could I discover any sign which might
indicate the character or intentions of the man who lived in this
singular place, save that he must be of Spartan habits and cared
little for the comforts of life. When I thought of the heavy rains and
looked at the gaping roof I understood how strong and immutable must
be the purpose which had kept him in that inhospitable abode. Was he
our malignant enemy, or was he by chance our guardian angel?   Outside
the sun was sinking low and the west was blazing with scarlet and
gold. Its reflection was shot back in ruddy patches by the distant
pools which lay amid the great Grimpen Mire. There were the two towers
of Baskerville Hall, and there a distant blur of smoke which marked
the village of Grimpen. All was sweet and mellow and peaceful in the
golden evening light, and yet as I looked at them my soul shared none
of the peace of Nature but quivered at the vagueness and the terror of
that interview which every instant was bringing nearer. With tingling
nerves but a fixed purpose, I sat in the dark recess of the hut and
waited with sombre patience for the coming of its tenant.   Far away
came the sharp clink of a boot striking upon a stone. Then another and
yet another, coming nearer and nearer. I shrank back into the darkest
corner and cocked the pistol in my pocket, determined not to discover
myself until I had an opportunity of seeing something of the stranger.
There was a long pause which showed that he had stopped. Then again
the footsteps approached and a shadow fell across the opening of the
hut.   "It is a lovely evening, my dear Watson," said a well-known
voice.   Chapter 12. Death on the Moor Then my senses and my voice
came back to me, while a crushing weight of responsibility seemed in
an instant to be lifted from my soul. That cold, incisive, ironical
voice could belong to but one man in all the world.   "Holmes!" I
cried—"Holmes!" "Come out," said he, "and please be careful with the
revolver." I stooped under the rude lintel, and there he sat upon a
stone outside, his grey eyes dancing with amusement as they fell upon
my astonished features. In his tweed suit and cloth cap he looked like
any other tourist upon the moor, and he had contrived, with that
catlike love of personal cleanliness which was one of his
characteristics, that his chin should be as smooth and his linen as
perfect as if he were in Baker Street.   "I never was more glad to see
anyone in my life," said I as I wrung him by the hand. "Or more
astonished, eh?" "Well, I must confess to it." I had no idea that
you'd found my occasional retreat, still less that you were inside it,
until I was within twenty paces of the door."   "My footprint, I
presume?" "No, Watson, I fear that I could not undertake to recognize
your footprint amid all the footprints of the world. If you seriously
desire to deceive me you must change your tobacconist; for when I see
the stub of a cigarette marked Bradley, Oxford Street, I know that my
friend Watson is in the neighbourhood. You threw it down, no doubt, at
that supreme moment when you charged into the empty hut."   "Exactly."
"I thought as much—and knowing your admirable tenacity I was convinced
that you were sitting in ambush, a weapon within reach, waiting for
the tenant to return.   "I didn't know who you were, but I was
determined to find out." "Excellent, Watson! You saw me, perhaps, on
the night of the convict hunt, when I was so imprudent as to allow the
moon to rise behind me?"   "Yes, I saw you then." "And have no doubt
searched all the huts until you came to this one?" "No, your boy had
been observed, and that gave me a guide whereto look." "The old
gentleman with the telescope, no doubt. I could not make it out when
first I saw the light flashing upon the lens." He rose and peeped into
the hut. "Ha, I see that Cartwright has brought up some supplies. So
you have been to Coombe Tracey, have you?"   "Yes." "To see Laura
Lyons?" "Exactly." Our researches have evidently been running on
parallel lines, and when we unite our results I expect we shall have a
fairly full knowledge of the case."   "Well, I am glad from my heart
that you are here, for indeed the responsibility and the mystery were
both becoming too much for my nerves. I thought that you were in Baker
Street working out that case of blackmailing."   "That was what I
wished you to think." I cried with some bitterness. "I think that I
have deserved better at your hands, Holmes."   In truth, it was partly
for your own sake that I did it, and it was my appreciation of the
danger which you ran which led me to comedown and examine the matter
for myself. Had I been with Sir Henry and you it is confident that my
point of view would've been the same as yours, and my presence
would've warned our very formidable opponents to be on their guard. As
it is, I have been able to get about as I could not possibly have done
had I been living in the Hall, and I remain an unknown factor in the
business, ready to throw in all my weight at a critical moment."
"But why keep me in the dark?" "For you to know couldn't've helped us
and might possibly have led to my discovery. You'd have wished to tell
me something, or in your kindness you'd have brought me out some
comfort or other, and so an unnecessary risk would be run. I brought
Cartwright down with me—you remember the little chap at the express
office—and he has seen after my simple wants: a loaf of bread and a
clean collar. He's given me an extra pair of eyes upon a very active
pair of feet, and both have been invaluable."   "—My voice trembled as
I recalled the pains and the pride with which I had composed them.
Holmes took a bundle of papers from his pocket. "Here are your
reports, my dear fellow, and very well thumbed, I assure you. I must
compliment you exceedingly upon the zeal and the intelligence which
you have shown over an extraordinarily difficult case."   I was still
rather raw over the deception which had been practised upon me, but
the warmth of Holmes's praise drove my anger from my mind.   "And now
tell me the result of your visit to Laura Lyons—it wasn't difficult
for me to guess that it was to see her that you'd gone, for I am
already aware that she's the one person in Coombe Tracey who might be
of service to us in the matter. In fact, if you'd not gone today it is
exceedingly probable that I should've gone tomorrow."   The sun had
set and dusk was settling over the moor. The air had turned chill and
we withdrew into the hut for warmth. There, sitting together in the
twilight, I told Holmes of my conversation with the lady.   "It fills
up a gap which I had been unable to bridge in this most complex
affair. You're aware, perhaps, that a close intimacy exists between
this lady and the man Stapleton?"   "I didn't know of a close
intimacy." "There can be no doubt about the matter. They meet, they
write, there is a complete understanding between them. Now, this puts
a very powerful weapon into our hands.   "His wife?" The lady who's
passed here as Stapleton is in reality his wife."   "Good heavens,
Holmes! How could he've permitted Sir Henry to fall in love with her?"
He took particular care that Sir Henry didn't make love to her, as you
have yourself observed. I repeat that the lady is his wife and not his
sister."   "But why this elaborate deception?" "Because he foresaw
that she'd be much more useful to him in the character of a free
woman." In that impassive colourless man, with his straw hat and his
butterfly-net, I seemed to see something terrible—a creature of
infinite patience and craft, with a smiling face and a murderous
heart.   "It is he, then, who's our enemy—it is he who dogged us in
London?" "So I read the riddle." "And the warning—it must've come from
her!" "Exactly." The shape of some monstrous villainy, half seen, half
guessed, loomed through the darkness which had girt me so long. How do
you know that the woman is his wife?"   "Because he so far forgot
himself as to tell you a true piece of autobiography upon the occasion
when he first met you, and I dare say he has many a time regretted it
since. He was once a schoolmaster in the north of England. Now, there
is no one more easy to trace than a schoolmaster. There're scholastic
agencies by which one may identify any man who's been in the
profession. A little investigation showed me that a school had come to
grief under atrocious circumstances, and that the man who'd owned
it—the name was different—had disappeared with his wife. When I
learned that the missing man was devoted to entomology the
identification was complete."   The darkness was rising, but much was
still hidden by the shadows. "If this woman is in truth his wife,
where's Laura Lyons come in?"   "That is one of the points upon which
your own researches have shed a light. Your interview with the lady
has cleared the situation very much. In that case, regarding Stapleton
as an unmarried man, she counted no doubt upon becoming his wife."
"And when she's undeceived?" "Why, then we may find the lady of
service. Don't you think, Watson, that you are away from your charge
rather long? Your place should be at Baskerville Hall."   The last red
streaks had faded away in the west and night had settled upon the
moor.   "One last question, Holmes," I said as I rose. "Surely there
is no need of secrecy between you and me. What's the meaning of it
all?   Holmes's voice sank as he answered: "It is murder,
Watson—refined, cold-blooded, deliberate murder. My nets are closing
upon him, even as his are upon Sir Henry, and with your help he's
already almost at my mercy. There's but one danger which can threaten
us. It is that he should strike before we're ready to do so. Another
day—two at the most—and I have my case complete, but until then guard
your charge as closely as ever a fond mother watched her ailing child.
Your mission today has justified itself, and yet I could almost wish
that you'd not left his side. Hark!"   That frightful cry turned the
blood to ice in my veins.   "Oh, my God!" I gasped. "What is it?
What's it mean?" Holmes had sprung to his feet, and I saw his dark,
athletic outline at the door of the hut, his shoulders stooping, his
head thrust forward, his face peering into the darkness. "Hush!" he
whispered. "Hush!" The cry had been loud on account of its vehemence,
but it had pealed out from somewhere far off on the shadowy plain.
Holmes whispered; and I knew from the thrill of his voice that he, the
man of iron, was shaken to the soul. "Where is it, Watson?"   I
pointed into the darkness.   "No, there!" And a new sound mingled with
it, a deep, muttered rumble, musical and yet menacing, rising and
falling like the low, constant murmur of the sea.   "The hound!" cried
Holmes. Great heavens, if we're too late!"   He'd started running
swiftly over the moor, and I had followed at his heels. But now from
somewhere among the broken ground immediately in front of us there
came one last despairing yell, and then a dull, heavy thud. Not
another sound broke the heavy silence of the windless night.   I saw
Holmes put his hand to his forehead like a man distracted.   "He has
beaten us, Watson.   "No, no, surely not!" And you, Watson, see what
comes of abandoning your charge! But, by Heaven, if the worst has
happened we'll avenge him!"   Blindly we ran through the gloom,
blundering against boulders, forcing our way through gorse bushes,
panting up hills and rushing down slopes, heading always in the
direction whence those dreadful sounds had come.   "Can you see
anything?" "Nothing." "But, hark, what's that?" A low moan had fallen
upon our ears. On that side a ridge of rocks ended in a sheer cliff
which overlooked a stone-strewn slope. On its jagged face was spread-
eagled some dark, irregular object. As we ran towards it the vague
outline hardened into a definite shape. It was a prostrate man face
downward upon the ground, the head doubled under him at a horrible
angle, the shoulders rounded and the body hunched together as if in
the act of throwing a somersault. So grotesque was the attitude that I
could not for the instant realise that that moan had been the passing
of his soul. Not a whisper, not a rustle, rose now from the dark
figure over which we stooped. Holmes laid his hand upon him and held
it up again with an exclamation of horror. The gleam of the match
which he struck shone upon his clotted fingers and upon the ghastly
pool which widened slowly from the crushed skull of the victim. And it
shone upon something else which turned our hearts sick and faint
within us—the body of Sir Henry Baskerville!   There was no chance of
either of us forgetting that peculiar ruddy tweed suit—the very one
which he had worn on the first morning that we had seen him in Baker
Street. We caught the one clear glimpse of it, and then the match
flickered and went out, even as the hope had gone out of our souls.
"The brute! I cried with clenched hands. "Oh Holmes, I shall never
forgive myself for having left him to his fate."   To've my case well
rounded and complete, I have thrown away the life of my client. It is
the greatest blow which's befallen me in my career. But how could I
know—how could I know—that he'd risk his life alone upon the moor in
the face of all my warnings?"   "That we should've heard his
screams—my God, those screams!—and yet have been unable to save him!
Where's this brute of a hound which drove him to his death? It may be
lurking among these rocks at this instant. He shall answer for this
deed."   I'll see to that. Uncle and nephew have been murdered—the one
frightened to death by the very sight of a beast which he thought to
be supernatural, the other driven to his end in his wild flight to
escape from it. But now we hafta prove the connection between the man
and the beast. Save from what we heard, we cannot even swear to the
existence of the latter, since Sir Henry has evidently died from the
fall. But, by heavens, cunning as he is, the fellow shall be in my
power before another day is past!"   We stood with bitter hearts on
either side of the mangled body, overwhelmed by this sudden and
irrevocable disaster which had brought all our long and weary labours
to so piteous an end. Then as the moon rose we climbed to the top of
the rocks over which our poor friend had fallen, and from the summit
we gazed out over the shadowy moor, half silver and half gloom. Far
away, miles off, in the direction of Grimpen, a single steady yellow
light was shining. With a bitter curse I shook my fist at it as I
gazed.   "Why should we not seize him at once?" "Our case isn't
complete. The fellow is wary and cunning to the last degree. If we
make one false move the villain may escape us yet."   "What can we
do?" Tonight we can only perform the last offices to our poor friend."
The agony of those contorted limbs struck me with a spasm of pain and
blurred my eyes with tears.   We cannot carry him all the way to the
Hall. Good heavens, are you mad?"   He'd uttered a cry and bent over
the body. Now he was dancing and laughing and wringing my hand. These
were hidden fires, indeed!   "A beard! A beard! The man has a beard!"
"A beard?" "It isn't the baronet—it is—why, it is my neighbour, the
convict!" With feverish haste we had turned the body over, and that
dripping beard was pointing up to the cold, clear moon. There could be
no doubt about the beetling forehead, the sunken animal eyes.   I
remembered how the baronet had told me that he had handed his old
wardrobe to Barrymore. Barrymore had passed it onto help Selden in his
escape. Boots, shirt, cap—it was all Sir Henry's. The tragedy was
still black enough, but this man had at least deserved death by the
laws of his country. I told Holmes how the matter stood, my heart
bubbling over with thankfulness and joy.   "It is clear enough that
the hound has been laid on from some article of Sir Henry's—the boot
which was abstracted in the hotel, in all probability—and so ran this
man down. There is one very singular thing, however: How came Selden,
in the darkness, to know that the hound was on his trail?"   "He heard
him." "To hear a hound upon the moor wouldn't work a hard man like
this convict into such a paroxysm of terror that he'd risk recapture
by screaming wildly for help. By his cries he must've run a long way
after he knew the animal was on his track.   "A greater mystery to me
is why this hound, presuming that all our conjectures are correct—" "I
presume nothing." I suppose that it don't always run loose upon the
moor. Stapleton wouldn't let it go unless he had reason to think that
Sir Henry would be there."   "My difficulty is the more formidable of
the two, for I think that we shall very shortly get an explanation of
yours, while mine may remain forever a mystery. The question now is,
what'll we do with this poor wretch's body?   "I suggest that we put
it in one of the huts until we can communicate with the police." I
have no doubt that you and I could carry it so far. Halloa, Watson,
what's this? It's the man himself, by all that's wonderful and
audacious! Not a word to show your suspicions—not a word, or my plans
crumble to the ground."   A figure was approaching us over the moor,
and I saw the dull red glow of a cigar. The moon shone upon him, and I
could distinguish the dapper shape and jaunty walk of the naturalist.
"Why, Dr. Watson, that's not you, is it? You're the last man that I
should've expected to see out on the moor at this time of night. But,
dear me, what's this? Not—don't tell me that it is our friend Sir
Henry!" He hurried past me and stooped over the dead man. I heard a
sharp intake of his breath and the cigar fell from his fingers.
"Who—who's this?" he stammered. "It is Selden, the man who escaped
from Princetown." Stapleton turned a ghastly face upon us, but by a
supreme effort he had overcome his amazement and his disappointment.
He looked sharply from Holmes to me. "Dear me! What a very shocking
affair!   "He appears to have broken his neck by falling over these
rocks.   "I heard a cry also. I was uneasy about Sir Henry."   "Why
about Sir Henry in particular?"   When he didn't come I was surprised,
and I naturally became alarmed for his safety when I heard cries upon
the moor. By the way"—his eyes darted again from my face to
Holmes's—"did you hear anything else besides a cry?"   "No," said
Holmes; "did you?" "No." "What do you mean, then?" "Oh, you know the
stories that the peasants tell about a phantom hound, and so on. I was
wondering if there were any evidence of such a sound tonight."   "We
heard nothing of the kind," said I. "And what's your theory of this
poor fellow's death?" He's rushed about the moor in a crazy state and
eventually fallen over here and broken his neck."   "That seems the
most reasonable theory," said Stapleton, and he gave a sigh which I
took to indicate his relief.   My friend bowed his compliments.   "We
have been expecting you in these parts since Dr. Watson came down.   I
have no doubt that my friend's explanation will cover the facts. I'll
take an unpleasant remembrance back to London with me tomorrow."
"Oh, you return tomorrow?" "That is my intention." "I hope your visit
has cast some light upon those occurrences which have puzzled us?"
Holmes shrugged his shoulders. An investigator needs facts and not
legends or rumours. It's not been a satisfactory case."   My friend
spoke in his frankest and most unconcerned manner. Stapleton still
looked hard at him.   "I would suggest carrying this poor fellow to my
house, but it'd give my sister such a fright that I don't feel
justified in doing it.   Resisting Stapleton's offer of hospitality,
Holmes and I set off to Baskerville Hall, leaving the naturalist to
return alone. Looking back we saw the figure moving slowly away over
the broad moor, and behind him that one black smudge on the silvered
slope which showed where the man was lying who'd come so horribly to
his end.   "We're at close grips at last," said Holmes as we walked
together across the moor. How he pulled himself together in the face
of what must've been a paralyzing shock when he found that the wrong
man had fallen a victim to his plot. I told you in London, Watson, and
I tell you now again, that we have never had a foeman more worthy of
our steel."   "I am sorry that he has seen you." "And so was I at
first. But there was no getting out of it." "What effect do you think
it'll have upon his plans now that he knows you are here?" "It may
cause him to be more cautious, or it may drive him to desperate
measures at once.   "Why should we not arrest him at once?" "My dear
Watson, you were born to be a man of action. Your instinct is always
to do something energetic. But supposing, for argument's sake, that we
had him arrested tonight, what on earth the better off should we be
for that? There's the devilish cunning of it! If he were acting
through a human agent we could get some evidence, but if we were to
drag this great dog to the light of day it'd not help us in putting a
rope round the neck of its master."   "Surely we have a case." We
should be laughed out of court if we came with such a story and such
evidence."   "There is Sir Charles's death." "Found dead without a
mark upon him. You and I know that he died of sheer fright, and we
know also what frightened him, but how're we to get twelve stolid
jurymen to know it? What signs are thereof a hound? Where're the marks
of its fangs? Of course we know that a hound don't bite a dead body
and that Sir Charles was dead before ever the brute overtook him.
"Well, then, tonight?" "We aren't much better off tonight. Again,
there was no direct connection between the hound and the man's death.
We heard it, but we could not prove that it was running upon this
man's trail. There is a complete absence of motive. No, my dear
fellow; we must reconcile ourselves to the fact that we have no case
at present, and that it is worth our while to run any risk to
establish one."   "And how do you propose to do so?" "I have great
hopes of what Laura Lyons may do for us when the position of affairs
is made clear to her. Sufficient for tomorrow is the evil thereof; but
I hope before the day is past to have the upper hand at last."   I
could draw nothing further from him, and he walked, lost in thought,
as far as the Baskerville gates. "Are you coming up?" "Yes; I see no
reason for further concealment. Say nothing of the hound to Sir Henry.
Let him think that Selden's death was as Stapleton would've us
believe. He'll have a better nerve for the ordeal which he'll hafta
undergo tomorrow, when he's engaged, if I remember your report aright,
to dine with these people."   "And so am I." That'll be easily
arranged. And now, if we're too late for dinner, I think that we're
both ready for our suppers."   Chapter 13. Fixing the Nets Sir Henry
was more pleased than surprised to see Sherlock Holmes, for he had for
some days been expecting that recent events would bring him down from
London. He did raise his eyebrows, however, when he found that my
friend had neither any luggage nor any explanations for its absence.
Between us we soon supplied his wants, and then over a belated supper
we explained to the baronet as much of our experience as it seemed
desirable that he should know. But first I had the unpleasant duty of
breaking the news to Barrymore and his wife. To him it may've been an
unmitigated relief, but she wept bitterly in her apron. To all the
world he was the man of violence, half animal and half demon; but to
her he always remained the little wilful boy of her own girlhood, the
child who'd clung to her hand.   "I've been moping in the house all
day since Watson went off in the morning," said the baronet. If I
hadn't sworn not to go about alone I might've had a more lively
evening, for I had a message from Stapleton asking me over there."
"I have no doubt that you'd have had a more lively evening," said
Holmes drily.   Sir Henry opened his eyes.   I fear your servant who
gave them to him may get into trouble with the police."   "That is
unlikely. There was no mark on any of them, as far as I know." I amn't
sure that as a conscientious detective my first duty isn't to arrest
the whole household. Watson's reports are most incriminating
documents."   "But how about the case?" asked the baronet. I don't
know that Watson and I are much the wiser since we came down."   "I
think that I shall be in a position to make the situation rather more
clear to you before long. It's been an exceedingly difficult and most
complicated business.   "We've had one experience, as Watson has no
doubt told you. We heard the hound on the moor, so I can swear that it
isn't all empty superstition. If you can muzzle that one and put him
on a chain I'll be ready to swear you are the greatest detective of
all time."   "I think I'll muzzle him and chain him all right if you
will gimme your help." "Whatever you tell me to do I'll do." "Very
good; and I'll ask you also to do it blindly, without always asking
the reason." "Just as you like." "If you will do this I think the
chances are that our little problem will soon be solved.   The lamp
beat upon his face, and so intent was it and so still that it might
have been that of a clear-cut classical statue, a personification of
alertness and expectation.   "What is it?" we both cried. His features
were still composed, but his eyes shone with amused exultation.
"Excuse the admiration of a connoisseur," said he as he waved his hand
towards the line of portraits which covered the opposite wall. "Watson
won't allow that I know anything of art but that's mere jealousy
because our views upon the subject differ.   "Well, I'm glad to hear
you say so," said Sir Henry, glancing with some surprise at my friend.
"I don't pretend to know much about these things, and I'd be a better
judge of a horse or a steer than of a picture.   That's a Kneller,
I'll swear, that lady in the blue silk over yonder, and the stout
gentleman with the wig ought to be a Reynolds. They're all family
portraits, I presume?"   "Every one." "Do you know the names?"
"Barrymore has been coaching me in them, and I think I can say my
lessons fairly well." "Who is the gentleman with the telescope?" The
man with the blue coat and the roll of paper is Sir William
Baskerville, who was Chairman of Committees of the House of Commons
under Pitt."   "And this Cavalier opposite to me—the one with the
black velvet and the lace?" "Ah, you have a right to know about him.
That's the cause of all the mischief, the wicked Hugo, who started the
Hound of the Baskervilles.   I gazed with interest and some surprise
upon the portrait. said Holmes, "he seems a quiet, meek-mannered man
enough, but I dare say that there was a lurking devil in his eyes. I
had pictured him as a more robust and ruffianly person."   "There's no
doubt about the authenticity, for the name and the date, 1647, are on
the back of the canvas." Holmes said little more, but the picture of
the old roysterer seemed to have a fascination for him, and his eyes
were continually fixed upon it during supper. He led me back into the
banqueting-hall, his bedroom candle in his hand, and he held it up
against the time-stained portrait on the wall.   "Do you see anything
there?" I looked at the broad plumed hat, the curling love-locks, the
white lace collar, and the straight, severe face which was framed
between them.   "Is it like anyone you know?" "There is something of
Sir Henry about the jaw." But wait an instant!" He stood upon a chair,
and, holding up the light in his left hand, he curved his right arm
over the broad hat and round the long ringlets.   "Good heavens!"
The face of Stapleton had sprung out of the canvas. My eyes have been
trained to examine faces and not their trimmings. It is the first
quality of a criminal investigator that he should see through a
disguise."   "But this's marvellous.   "Yes, it is an interesting
instance of a throwback, which appears to be both physical and
spiritual. A study of family portraits is enough to convert a man to
the doctrine of reincarnation.   "With designs upon the succession."
This chance of the picture has supplied us with one of our most
obvious missing links. We've him, Watson, we have him, and I dare
swear that before tomorrow night he'll be fluttering in our net as
helpless as one of his own butterflies. A pin, a cork, and a card, and
we add him to the Baker Street collection!" He burst into one of his
rare fits of laughter as he turned away from the picture. I haven't
heard him laugh often, and it's always boded ill to somebody.   I was
up betimes in the morning, but Holmes was afoot earlier still, for I
saw him as I dressed, coming up the drive. "Yes, we should've a full
day today," he remarked, and he rubbed his hands with the joy of
action. We'll know before the day is out whether we have caught our
big, lean-jawed pike, or whether he has got through the meshes."
"Have you been on the moor already?" "I have sent a report from
Grimpen to Princetown as to the death of Selden. And I have also
communicated with my faithful Cartwright, who'd certainly have pined
away at the door of my hut, as a dog does at his master's grave, if I
hadn't set his mind at rest about my safety."   "What is the next
move?" "To see Sir Henry.   "You look like a general who's planning a
battle with his chief of the staff."   Watson was asking for orders."
"And so do I." You're engaged, as I understand, to dine with our
friends the Stapletons tonight."   They're very hospitable people, and
I am sure that they'd be very glad to see you."   "I fear that Watson
and I must go to London." "To London?" "Yes, I think that we should be
more useful thereat the present juncture." The baronet's face
perceptibly lengthened. The Hall and the moor aren't very pleasant
places when one is alone."   "My dear fellow, you must trust me
implicitly and do exactly what I tell you. You can tell your friends
that we should've been happy to have come with you, but that urgent
business required us to be in town. We hope very soon to return to
Devonshire.   "If you insist upon it." "There is no alternative, I
assure you." I saw by the baronet's clouded brow that he was deeply
hurt by what he regarded as our desertion. he asked coldly.   We'll
drive into Coombe Tracey, but Watson will leave his things as a pledge
that he'll comeback to you. Watson, you will send a note to Stapleton
to tell him that you regret that you cannot come."   "I have a good
mind to go to London with you," said the baronet.   Because you gave
me your word that you'd do as you were told, and I tell you to stay."
"All right, then, I'll stay." I wish you to drive to Merripit House.
Send back your trap, however, and let them know that you intend to
walk home."   "To walk across the moor?" "Yes." "But that's the very
thing which you have so often cautioned me not to do." If I hadn't
every confidence in your nerve and courage I'd not suggest it, but it
is essential that you should do it."   "Then I'll do it." "And as you
value your life don't go across the moor in any direction save along
the straight path which leads from Merripit House to the Grimpen Road,
and is your natural way home." "I will do just what you say." I should
be glad to get away as soon after breakfast as possible, so as to
reach London in the afternoon."   I was much astounded by this
programme, though I remembered that Holmes had said to Stapleton on
the night before that his visit would terminate next day. It hadn't
crossed my mind however, that he'd wish me to go with him, nor could I
understand how we could both be absent at a moment which he himself
declared to be critical. There was nothing for it, however, but
implicit obedience; so we bade good-bye to our rueful friend, and a
couple of hours afterwards we were at the station of Coombe Tracey and
had dispatched the trap upon its return journey.   "Any orders, sir?"
The moment you arrive you will send a wire to Sir Henry Baskerville,
in my name, to say that if he finds the pocketbook which I have
dropped he is to send it by registered post to Baker Street."   "Yes,
sir." "And ask at the station office if there is a message for me."
The boy returned with a telegram, which Holmes handed to me.   Wire
received. Coming down with unsigned warrant. Arrive five-forty.   He's
the best of the professionals, I think, and we may need his
assistance. Now, Watson, I think that we cannot employ our time better
than by calling upon your acquaintance, Laura Lyons."   His plan of
campaign was beginning to be evident. He'd use the baronet to convince
the Stapletons that we were really gone, while we should actually
return at the instant when we were likely to be needed. That telegram
from London, if mentioned by Sir Henry to the Stapletons, must remove
the last suspicions from their minds.   Mrs. Laura Lyons was in her
office, and Sherlock Holmes opened his interview with a frankness and
directness which considerably amazed her. "I am investigating the
circumstances which attended the death of the late Sir Charles
Baskerville," said he.   she asked defiantly.   "You have confessed
that you asked Sir Charles to be at the gate at ten o'clock. We know
that that was the place and hour of his death.   "There is no
connection." "In that case the coincidence must indeed be an
extraordinary one. But I think that we shall succeed in establishing a
connection, after all. We regard this case as one of murder, and the
evidence may implicate not only your friend Mr. Stapleton but his wife
as well."   The lady sprang from her chair. "His wife!"   The person
who's passed for his sister is really his wife."   Her hands were
grasping the arms of her chair, and I saw that the pink nails had
turned white with the pressure of her grip.   "His wife!" she said
again. "His wife! He's not a married man." Sherlock Holmes shrugged
his shoulders. "Prove it to me! Prove it to me! And if you can do
so—!" The fierce flash of her eyes said more than any words. "I have
come prepared to do so," said Holmes, drawing several papers from his
pocket. "Here is a photograph of the couple taken in York four years
ago. and Mrs. Vandeleur,' but you will have no difficulty in
recognizing him, and her also, if you know her by sight. Here are
three written descriptions by trustworthy witnesses of Mr. and Mrs.
Vandeleur, who at that time kept St. Oliver's private school. Read
them and see if you can doubt the identity of these people."   She
glanced at them, and then looked up at us with the set, rigid face of
a desperate woman. "Mr. Holmes," she said, "this man had offered me
marriage on condition that I could get a divorce from my husband. He's
lied to me, the villain, in every conceivable way. Not one word of
truth has he ever told me. I imagined that all was for my own sake.
But now I see that I was never anything but a tool in his hands. Why
should I preserve faith with him who never kept any with me? Why
should I try to shield him from the consequences of his own wicked
acts? Ask me what you like, and there is nothing which I shall hold
back. One thing I swear to you, and that's that when I wrote the
letter I never dreamed of any harm to the old gentleman, who'd been my
kindest friend."   "The recital of these events must be very painful
to you, and perhaps it'll make it easier if I tell you what occurred,
and you can check me if I make any material mistake. The sending of
this letter was suggested to you by Stapleton?"   "He dictated it." "I
presume that the reason he gave was that you'd receive help from Sir
Charles for the legal expenses connected with your divorce?"
"Exactly." "And then after you'd sent the letter he dissuaded you from
keeping the appointment?" "He told me that it'd hurt his self-respect
that any other man should find the money for such an object, and that
though he was a poor man himself he'd devote his last penny to
removing the obstacles which divided us." And then you heard nothing
until you read the reports of the death in the paper?"   "No." "And he
made you swear to say nothing about your appointment with Sir
Charles?" He said that the death was a very mysterious one, and that I
should certainly be suspected if the facts came out. He frightened me
into remaining silent."   "Quite so. But you'd your suspicions?" She
hesitated and looked down. "I knew him," she said.   "I think that on
the whole you have had a fortunate escape," said Sherlock Holmes.
You've been walking for some months very near to the edge of a
precipice. We must wish you good-morning now, Mrs. Lyons, and it is
probable that you will very shortly hear from us again."   "Our case
becomes rounded off, and difficulty after difficulty thins away in
front of us," said Holmes as we stood waiting for the arrival of the
express from town. "I shall soon be in the position of being able to
put into a single connected narrative one of the most singular and
sensational crimes of modern times. Students of criminology will
remember the analogous incidents in Godno, in Little Russia, in the
year '66, and of course there're the Anderson murders in North
Carolina, but this case possesses some features which are entirely its
own. Even now we have no clear case against this very wily man.   The
London express came roaring into the station, and a small, wiry
bulldog of a man had sprung from a first-class carriage. We all three
shook hands, and I saw at once from the reverential way in which
Lestrade gazed at my companion that he had learned a good deal since
the days when they'd first worked together.   "Anything good?"   "The
biggest thing for years," said Holmes. "We have two hours before we
need think of starting. I think we might employ it in getting some
dinner and then, Lestrade, we'll take the London fog out of your
throat by giving you a breath of the pure night air of Dartmoor. Ah,
well, I don't suppose you will forget your first visit."   Chapter 14.
The Hound of the Baskervilles One of Sherlock Holmes's defects—if,
indeed, one may call it a defect—was that he was exceedingly loath to
communicate his full plans to any other person until the instant of
their fulfilment. Partly it came no doubt from his own masterful
nature, which loved to dominate and surprise those who were around
him. Partly also from his professional caution, which urged him never
to take any chances. The result, however, was very trying for those
who were acting as his agents and assistants. The great ordeal was in
front of us; at last we were about to make our final effort, and yet
Holmes had said nothing, and I could only surmise what his course of
action would be. My nerves thrilled with anticipation when at last the
cold wind upon our faces and the dark, void spaces on either side of
the narrow road told me that we were back upon the moor once again.
Every stride of the horses and every turn of the wheels was taking us
nearer to our supreme adventure.   Our conversation was hampered by
the presence of the driver of the hired wagonette, so that we were
forced to talk of trivial matters when our nerves were tense with
emotion and anticipation. It was a relief to me, after that unnatural
restraint, when we at last passed Frankland's house and knew that we
were drawing near to the Hall and to the scene of action. The
wagonette was paid off and ordered to return to Coombe Tracey
forthwith, while we started to walk to Merripit House.   "Are you
armed, Lestrade?" The little detective smiled.   My friend and I are
also ready for emergencies."   "You're mighty close about this affair,
Mr. Holmes.   "A waiting game." "My word, it don't seem a very
cheerful place," said the detective with a shiver, glancing round him
at the gloomy slopes of the hill and at the huge lake of fog which
layover the Grimpen Mire.   I must request you to walk on tiptoe and
not to talk above a whisper."   We moved cautiously along the track as
if we were bound for the house, but Holmes halted us when we were
about two hundred yards from it. "These rocks upon the right make an
admirable screen."   "We are to wait here?" Get into this hollow,
Lestrade. You've been inside the house, have you not, Watson? Can you
tell the position of the rooms? What're those latticed windows at this
end?"   "I think they're the kitchen windows." "And the one beyond,
which shines so brightly?" "That is certainly the dining-room." You
know the lie of the land best. Creep forward quietly and see what
they're doing—but for heaven's sake don't let them know that they're
watched!"   I tiptoed down the path and stooped behind the low wall
which surrounded the stunted orchard.   There were only two men in the
room, Sir Henry and Stapleton. Both were smoking cigars, and coffee
and wine were in front of them. Stapleton was talking with animation,
but the baronet looked pale and distrait. Perhaps the thought of that
lonely walk across the ill-omened moor was weighing heavily upon his
mind.   As I watched them Stapleton rose and left the room, while Sir
Henry filled his glass again and leaned back in his chair, puffing at
his cigar. I heard the creak of a door and the crisp sound of boots
upon gravel. The steps passed along the path on the other side of the
wall under which I crouched. A key turned in a lock, and as he passed
in there was a curious scuffling noise from within. He was only a
minute or so inside, and then I heard the key turn again and he passed
me and reentered the house. I saw him rejoin his guest, and I crept
quietly back to where my companions were waiting to tell them what I
had seen.   Holmes asked when I had finished my report.   "No." "Where
can she be, then, since there is no light in any other room except the
kitchen?" "I cannot think where she is." It was drifting slowly in our
direction and banked itself up like a wall on that side of us, low but
thick and well defined. The moon shone on it, and it looked like a
great shimmering ice-field, with the heads of the distant tors as
rocks borne upon its surface. Holmes's face was turned towards it, and
he muttered impatiently as he watched its sluggish drift.   "It's
moving towards us, Watson." "Is that serious?" "Very serious,
indeed—the one thing upon earth which could've disarranged my plans.
He can't be very long, now. Our success and even his life may depend
upon his coming out before the fog is over the path."   The night was
clear and fine above us. The stars shone cold and bright, while a
half-moon bathed the whole scene in a soft, uncertain light. Before us
lay the dark bulk of the house, its serrated roof and bristling
chimneys hard outlined against the silver-spangled sky. Broad bars of
golden light from the lower windows stretched across the orchard and
the moor. The servants had left the kitchen. There only remained the
lamp in the dining-room where the two men, the murderous host and the
unconscious guest, still chatted over their cigars.   Already the
first thin wisps of it were curling across the golden square of the
lighted window. The farther wall of the orchard was already invisible,
and the trees were standing out of a swirl of white vapour. As we
watched it the fog-wreaths came crawling round both corners of the
house and rolled slowly into one dense bank on which the upper floor
and the roof floated like a strange ship upon a shadowy sea. Holmes
struck his hand passionately upon the rock in front of us and stamped
his feet in his impatience.   In half an hour we won't be able to see
our hands in front of us."   "Shall we move farther back upon higher
ground?" "Yes, I think it'd be as well." So as the fog-bank flowed
onward we fell back before it until we were half a mile from the
house, and still that dense white sea, with the moon silvering its
upper edge, swept slowly and inexorably on. "We dasn't take the chance
of his being overtaken before he can reach us. At all costs we must
hold our ground where we are." He dropped on his knees and clapped his
ear to the ground. "Thank God, I think that I hear him coming."   A
sound of quick steps broke the silence of the moor. Crouching among
the stones we stared intently at the silver-tipped bank in front of
us. He looked round him in surprise as he emerged into the clear,
starlit night. Then he came swiftly along the path, passed close to
where we lay, and went on up the long slope behind us. As he walked he
glanced continually over either shoulder, like a man who's ill at
ease.   "Hist!" cried Holmes, and I heard the sharp click of a cocking
pistol. It's coming!"   There was a thin, crisp, continuous patter
from somewhere in the heart of that crawling bank. The cloud was
within fifty yards of where we lay, and we glared at it, all three,
uncertain what horror was about to break from the heart of it. I was
at Holmes's elbow, and I glanced for an instant at his face. It was
pale and exultant, his eyes shining brightly in the moonlight. But
suddenly they started forward in a rigid, fixed stare, and his lips
parted in amazement. At the same instant Lestrade gave a yell of
terror and threw himself face downward upon the ground. I sprang to my
feet, my inert hand grasping my pistol, my mind paralyzed by the
dreadful shape which had sprung out upon us from the shadows of the
fog. Fire burst from its open mouth, its eyes glowed with a
smouldering glare, its muzzle and hackles and dewlap were outlined in
flickering flame. Never in the delirious dream of a disordered brain
could anything more savage, more appalling, more hellish be conceived
than that dark form and savage face which broke upon us out of the
wall of fog.   With long bounds the huge black creature was leaping
down the track, following hard upon the footsteps of our friend. So
paralyzed were we by the apparition that we allowed him to pass before
we had recovered our nerve. Then Holmes and I both fired together, and
the creature gave a hideous howl, which showed that one at least had
hit him. He didn't pause, however, but bounded onward. Far away on the
path we saw Sir Henry looking back, his face white in the moonlight,
his hands raised in horror, glaring helplessly at the frightful thing
which was hunting him down. But that cry of pain from the hound had
blown all our fears to the winds. If he was vulnerable he was mortal,
and if we could wound him we could kill him. Never have I seen a man
run as Holmes ran that night. In front of us as we flew up the track
we heard scream after scream from Sir Henry and the deep roar of the
hound. I was in time to see the beast spring upon its victim, hurl him
to the ground, and worry at his throat. But the next instant Holmes
had emptied five barrels of his revolver into the creature's flank.
With a last howl of agony and a vicious snap in the air, it rolled
upon its back, four feet pawing furiously, and then fell limp upon its
side. I stooped, panting, and pressed my pistol to the dreadful,
shimmering head, but it was useless to press the trigger. The giant
hound was dead.   We tore away his collar, and Holmes breathed a
prayer of gratitude when we saw that there was no sign of a wound and
that the rescue had been in time. Already our friend's eyelids
shivered and he made a feeble effort to move. Lestrade thrust his
brandy-flask between the baronet's teeth, and two frightened eyes were
looking up at us.   "My God!" he whispered. "What was it? What, in
heaven's name, was it?" "We've laid the family ghost once and
forever."   In mere size and strength it was a terrible creature which
was lying stretched before us. Even now in the stillness of death, the
huge jaws seemed to be dripping with a bluish flame and the small,
deep-set, cruel eyes were ringed with fire. I placed my hand upon the
glowing muzzle, and as I held them up my own fingers smouldered and
gleamed in the darkness.   "Phosphorus," I said. "A cunning
preparation of it," said Holmes, sniffing at the dead animal. "There
is no smell which might have interfered with his power of scent. We
owe you a deep apology, Sir Henry, for having exposed you to this
fright. And the fog gave us little time to receive him."   "You have
saved my life." Are you strong enough to stand?"   "Give me another
mouthful of that brandy and I shall be ready for anything. So! What do
you propose to do?"   You're not fit for further adventures tonight.
If you will wait, one or other of us will go back with you to the
Hall."   We helped him to a rock, where he sat shivering with his face
buried in his hands.   "We must leave you now," said Holmes. "The rest
of our work must be done, and every moment is of importance.   "It's a
thousand to one against our finding him at the house," he continued as
we retraced our steps swiftly down the path.   "We were some distance
off, and this fog may've deadened them." No, no, he's gone by this
time! But we'll search the house and make sure."   The front door was
open, so we rushed in and hurried from room to room to the amazement
of a doddering old manservant, who met us in the passage. There was no
light save in the dining-room, but Holmes caught up the lamp and left
no corner of the house unexplored. On the upper floor, however, one of
the bedroom doors was locked.   "There's someone in here," cried
Lestrade. "I can hear a movement.   Holmes struck the door just over
the lock with the flat of his foot and it flew open. Pistol in hand,
we all three rushed into the room.   Instead we were faced by an
object so strange and so unexpected that we stood for a moment staring
at it in amazement.   The room had been fashioned into a small museum,
and the walls were lined by a number of glass-topped cases full of
that collection of butterflies and moths the formation of which had
been the relaxation of this complex and dangerous man. In the centre
of this room there was an upright beam, which had been placed at some
period as a support for the old worm-eaten baulk of timber which
spanned the roof. To this post a figure was tied, so swathed and
muffled in the sheets which had been used to secure it that one could
not for the moment tell whether it was that of a man or a woman.
Another covered the lower part of the face, and over it two dark
eyes—eyes full of grief and shame and a dreadful questioning—stared
back at us. In a minute we had torn off the gag, unswathed the bonds,
and Mrs. Stapleton sank upon the floor in front of us. As her
beautiful head fell upon her chest I saw the clear red weal of a
whiplash across her neck.   "The brute!" cried Holmes. "Here,
Lestrade, your brandy-bottle! She's fainted from ill-usage and
exhaustion."   She opened her eyes again. she asked. "Has he escaped?"
"He cannot escape us, madam." Sir Henry? Is he safe?"   "Yes." "And
the hound?" "It is dead." She gave a long sigh of satisfaction. "Thank
God! Thank God! Oh, this villain! See how he has treated me!" She shot
her arms out from her sleeves, and we saw with horror that they're all
mottled with bruises. It is my mind and soul that he has tortured and
defiled. I could endure it all, ill-usage, solitude, a life of
deception, everything, as long as I could still cling to the hope that
I had his love, but now I know that in this also I have been his dupe
and his tool." She broke into passionate sobbing as she spoke.   "You
bear him no good will, madam," said Holmes. If you have ever aided him
in evil, help us now and so atone."   "There is but one place where he
can have fled," she answered. "There is an old tin mine on an island
in the heart of the mire. It was there that he kept his hound and
there also he had made preparations so that he might have a refuge.
The fog-bank lay like white wool against the window.   "No one could
find his way into the Grimpen Mire tonight."   Her eyes and teeth
gleamed with fierce merriment.   "He may find his way in, but never
out," she cried. "How can he see the guiding wands tonight? We planted
them together, he and I, to mark the pathway through the mire. Oh, if
I could only have plucked them out today.   Meanwhile we left Lestrade
in possession of the house while Holmes and I went back with the
baronet to Baskerville Hall. The story of the Stapletons could no
longer be withheld from him, but he took the blow bravely when he
learned the truth about the woman whom he had loved. But the shock of
the night's adventures had shattered his nerves, and before morning he
lay delirious in a high fever under the care of Dr. Mortimer. The two
of them were destined to travel together round the world before Sir
Henry had become again the hale, hearty man that he had been before he
became master of that ill-omened estate.   And now I come rapidly to
the conclusion of this singular narrative, in which I have tried to
make the reader share those dark fears and vague surmises which
clouded our lives so long and ended in so tragic a manner. On the
morning after the death of the hound the fog had lifted and we were
guided by Mrs. Stapleton to the point where they'd found a pathway
through the bog. It helped us to realise the horror of this woman's
life when we saw the eagerness and joy with which she laid us on her
husband's track. We left her standing upon the thin peninsula of firm,
peaty soil which tapered out into the widespread bog. From the end of
it a small wand planted here and there showed where the path zigzagged
from tuft to tuft of rushes among those green-scummed pits and foul
quagmires which barred the way to the stranger. Rank reeds and lush,
slimy water-plants sent an odour of decay and a heavy miasmatic vapour
onto our faces, while a false step plunged us more than once thigh-
deep into the dark, quivering mire, which shook for yards in soft
undulations around our feet. Its tenacious grip plucked at our heels
as we walked, and when we sank into it it was as if some malignant
hand was tugging us down into those obscene depths, so grim and
purposeful was the clutch in which it held us. From amid a tuft of
cotton grass which bore it up out of the slime some dark thing was
projecting. Holmes sank to his waist as he stepped from the path to
seize it, and had we not been thereto drag him out he could never have
set his foot upon firm land again. He held an old black boot in the
air. "Meyers, Toronto," was printed on the leather inside.   "It is
our friend Sir Henry's missing boot."   "Thrown thereby Stapleton in
his flight." He retained it in his hand after using it to set the
hound upon the track. He fled when he knew the game was up, still
clutching it. And he hurled it away at this point of his flight. We
know at least that he came so far in safety."   There was no chance of
finding footsteps in the mire, for the rising mud oozed swiftly in
upon them, but as we at last reached firmer ground beyond the morass
we all looked eagerly for them. But no slightest sign of them ever met
our eyes. If the earth told a true story, then Stapleton never reached
that island of refuge towards which he struggled through the fog upon
that last night. Somewhere in the heart of the great Grimpen Mire,
down in the foul slime of the huge morass which had sucked him in,
this cold and cruel-hearted man is forever buried.   A huge driving-
wheel and a shaft half-filled with rubbish showed the position of an
abandoned mine. Beside it were the crumbling remains of the cottages
of the miners, driven away no doubt by the foul reek of the
surrounding swamp. In one of these a staple and chain with a quantity
of gnawed bones showed where the animal had been confined. A skeleton
with a tangle of brown hair adhering to it lay among the débris.
said Holmes. "By Jove, a curly-haired spaniel. Poor Mortimer will
never see his pet again. Well, I don't know that this place contains
any secret which we haven't already fathomed. He could hide his hound,
but he could not hush its voice, and hence came those cries which even
in daylight weren't pleasant to hear. On an emergency he could keep
the hound in the out-house at Merripit, but it was always a risk, and
it was only on the supreme day, which he regarded as the end of all
his efforts, that he dared do it. This paste in the tin is no doubt
the luminous mixture with which the creature was daubed. It was
suggested, of course, by the story of the family hell-hound, and by
the desire to frighten old Sir Charles to death. No wonder the poor
devil of a convict ran and screamed, even as our friend did, and as we
ourselves might have done, when he saw such a creature bounding
through the darkness of the moor upon his track. It was a cunning
device, for, apart from the chance of driving your victim to his
death, what peasant would venture to inquire too closely into such a
creature should he get sight of it, as many have done, upon the moor?
I said it in London, Watson, and I say it again now, that never yet
have we helped to hunt down a more dangerous man than he who's lying
yonder"—he swept his long arm towards the huge mottled expanse of
green-splotched bog which stretched away until it merged into the
russet slopes of the moor.   Chapter 15. A Retrospection It was the
end of November, and Holmes and I sat, upon a raw and foggy night, on
either side of a blazing fire in our sitting-room in Baker Street.
Since the tragic upshot of our visit to Devonshire he had been engaged
in two affairs of the utmost importance, in the first of which he had
exposed the atrocious conduct of Colonel Upwood in connection with the
famous card scandal of the Nonpareil Club, while in the second he had
defended the unfortunate Montpensier from the charge of murder which
hung over her in connection with the death of her step-daughter, Mlle.
Carére, the young lady who, as it'll be remembered, was found six
months later alive and married in New York. My friend was in excellent
spirits over the success which had attended a succession of difficult
and important cases, so that I was able to induce him to discuss the
details of the Baskerville mystery. I had waited patiently for the
opportunity for I was aware that he'd never permit cases to overlap,
and that his clear and logical mind wouldn't be drawn from its present
work to dwell upon memories of the past. Sir Henry and Dr. Mortimer
were, however, in London, on their way to that long voyage which had
been recommended for the restoration of his shattered nerves.   "The
whole course of events," said Holmes, "from the point of view of the
man who called himself Stapleton was simple and direct, although to
us, who'd no means in the beginning of knowing the motives of his
actions and could only learn part of the facts, it all appeared
exceedingly complex. I have had the advantage of two conversations
with Mrs. Stapleton, and the case has now been so entirely cleared up
that I amn't aware that there is anything which's remained a secret to
us.   "Perhaps you'd kindly gimme a sketch of events from memory."
"Certainly, though I cannot guarantee that I carryall the facts in my
mind. Intense mental concentration has a curious way of blotting out
what's passed. The barrister who's his case at his fingers' ends and
is able to argue with an expert upon his own subject finds that a week
or two of the courts will drive it all out of his head once more.
Carére has blurred my recollection of Baskerville Hall. Tomorrow some
other little problem may be submitted to my notice which will in turn
dispossess the fair French lady and the infamous Upwood. So far as the
case of the hound goes, however, I'll give you events as nearly as I
can, and you will suggest anything which I may've forgotten.   "My
inquiries show beyond all question that the family portrait didn't
lie, and that this fellow was indeed a Baskerville. He was a son of
that Rodger Baskerville, the younger brother of Sir Charles, who fled
with a sinister reputation to South America, where he was said to have
died unmarried. He married Beryl Garcia, one of the beauties of Costa
Rica, and, having purloined a considerable sum of public money, he
changed his name to Vandeleur and fled to England, where he
established a school in the east of Yorkshire. His reason for
attempting this special line of business was that he had struck up an
acquaintance with a consumptive tutor upon the voyage home, and that
he had used this man's ability to make the undertaking a success.
Fraser, the tutor, died however, and the school which had begun well
sank from disrepute into infamy. The Vandeleurs found it convenient to
change their name to Stapleton, and he brought the remains of his
fortune, his schemes for the future, and his taste for entomology to
the south of England. I learned at the British Museum that he was a
recognized authority upon the subject, and that the name of Vandeleur
has been permanently attached to a certain moth which he had, in his
Yorkshire days, been the first to describe.   "We now come to that
portion of his life which's proved to be of such intense interest to
us. The fellow had evidently made inquiry and found that only two
lives intervened between him and a valuable estate. When he went to
Devonshire his plans were, I believe, exceedingly hazy, but that he
meant mischief from the first is evident from the way in which he took
his wife with him in the character of his sister. The idea of using
her as a decoy was clearly already in his mind, though he mayn't have
been certain how the details of his plot were to be arranged. His
first act was to establish himself as near to his ancestral home as he
could, and his second was to cultivate a friendship with Sir Charles
Baskerville and with the neighbours.   "The baronet himself told him
about the family hound, and so prepared the way for his own death.
Stapleton, as I will continue to call him, knew that the old man's
heart was weak and that a shock would kill him. He'd heard also that
Sir Charles was superstitious and had taken this grim legend very
seriously. His ingenious mind instantly suggested a way by which the
baronet could be done to death, and yet it'd be hardly possible to
bring home the guilt to the real murderer.   "Having conceived the
idea he proceeded to carry it out with considerable finesse. An
ordinary schemer would've been content to work with a savage hound.
The use of artificial means to make the creature diabolical was a
flash of genius upon his part. The dog he bought in London from Ross
and Mangles, the dealers in Fulham Road. It was the strongest and most
savage in their possession. He brought it down by the North Devon line
and walked a great distance over the moor so as to get it home without
exciting any remarks. He'd already on his insect hunts learned to
penetrate the Grimpen Mire, and so had found a safe hiding-place for
the creature.   The old gentleman could not be decoyed outside of his
grounds at night. Several times Stapleton lurked about with his hound,
but without avail. It was during these fruitless quests that he, or
rather his ally, was seen by peasants, and that the legend of the
demon dog received a new confirmation. He'd hoped that his wife might
lure Sir Charles to his ruin, but here she proved unexpectedly
independent. She'd not endeavour to entangle the old gentleman in a
sentimental attachment which might deliver him over to his enemy.
Threats and even, I am sorry to say, blows refused to move her. She'd
have nothing to do with it, and for a time Stapleton was at a
deadlock.   "He found a way out of his difficulties through the chance
that Sir Charles, who'd conceived a friendship for him, made him the
minister of his charity in the case of this unfortunate woman, Mrs.
Laura Lyons. By representing himself as a single man he acquired
complete influence over her, and he gave her to understand that in the
event of her obtaining a divorce from her husband he would marry her.
His plans were suddenly brought to a head by his knowledge that Sir
Charles was about to leave the Hall on the advice of Dr. Mortimer,
with whose opinion he himself pretended to coincide. He therefore put
pressure upon Mrs. Lyons to write this letter, imploring the old man
to give her an interview on the evening before his departure for
London. He then, by a specious argument, prevented her from going, and
so had the chance for which he had waited.   "Driving back in the
evening from Coombe Tracey he was in time to get his hound, to treat
it with his infernal paint, and to bring the beast round to the gate
at which he had reason to expect that he would find the old gentleman
waiting. The dog, incited by its master, sprang over the wicket-gate
and pursued the unfortunate baronet, who fled screaming down the yew
alley. In that gloomy tunnel it must indeed have been a dreadful sight
to see that huge black creature, with its flaming jaws and blazing
eyes, bounding after its victim. He fell dead at the end of the alley
from heart disease and terror. The hound had kept upon the grassy
border while the baronet had run down the path, so that no track but
the man's was visible. On seeing him lying still the creature had
probably approached to sniff at him, but finding him dead had turned
away again. The hound was called off and hurried away to its lair in
the Grimpen Mire, and a mystery was left which puzzled the
authorities, alarmed the countryside, and finally brought the case
within the scope of our observation.   "So much for the death of Sir
Charles Baskerville. You perceive the devilish cunning of it, for
really it'd be almost impossible to make a case against the real
murderer. His only accomplice was one who could never give him away,
and the grotesque, inconceivable nature of the device only served to
make it more effective. Both of the women concerned in the case, Mrs.
Stapleton and Mrs. Laura Lyons, were left with a strong suspicion
against Stapleton. Mrs. Stapleton knew that he had designs upon the
old man, and also of the existence of the hound. Mrs. Lyons knew
neither of these things, but had been impressed by the death occurring
at the time of an uncancelled appointment which was only known to him.
The first half of his task was successfully accomplished but the more
difficult still remained.   "It is possible that Stapleton didn't know
of the existence of an heir in Canada. In any case he would very soon
learn it from his friend Dr. Mortimer, and he was told by the latter
all details about the arrival of Henry Baskerville. Stapleton's first
idea was that this young stranger from Canada might possibly be done
to death in London without coming down to Devonshire at all. He
distrusted his wife ever since she had refused to help him in laying a
trap for the old man, and he daren't leave her long out of his sight
for fear he should lose his influence over her. They lodged, I find,
at the Mexborough Private Hotel, in Craven Street, which was actually
one of those called upon by my agent in search of evidence. Here he
kept his wife imprisoned in her room while he, disguised in a beard,
followed Dr. Mortimer to Baker Street and afterwards to the station
and to the Northumberland Hotel. His wife had some inkling of his
plans; but she had such a fear of her husband—a fear founded upon
brutal ill-treatment—that she dasn't write to warn the man whom she
knew to be in danger. If the letter should fall into Stapleton's hands
her own life wouldn't be safe. Eventually, as we know, she adopted the
expedient of cutting out the words which would form the message, and
addressing the letter in a disguised hand. It reached the baronet, and
gave him the first warning of his danger.   "It was very essential for
Stapleton to get some article of Sir Henry's attire so that, in case
he was driven to use the dog, he might always have the means of
setting him upon his track. With characteristic promptness and
audacity he set about this at once, and we cannot doubt that the boots
or chamber-maid of the hotel was well bribed to help him in his
design. He then had it returned and obtained another—a most
instructive incident, since it proved conclusively to my mind that we
were dealing with a real hound, as no other supposition could explain
this anxiety to obtain an old boot and this indifference to a new one.
The more outré and grotesque an incident is the more carefully it
deserves to be examined, and the very point which appears to
complicate a case is, when duly considered and scientifically handled,
the one which's most likely to elucidate it.   From his knowledge of
our rooms and of my appearance, as well as from his general conduct, I
am inclined to think that Stapleton's career of crime has been by no
means limited to this single Baskerville affair. It is suggestive that
during the last three years there have been four considerable
burglaries in the west country, for none of which was any criminal
ever arrested. The last of these, at Folkestone Court, in May, was
remarkable for the cold-blooded pistolling of the page, who surprised
the masked and solitary burglar. I cannot doubt that Stapleton
recruited his waning resources in this fashion, and that for years he
has been a desperate and dangerous man.   "We had an example of his
readiness of resource that morning when he got away from us so
successfully, and also of his audacity in sending back my own name to
me through the cabman. He returned to Dartmoor and awaited the arrival
of the baronet."   "One moment!" "You have, no doubt, described the
sequence of events correctly, but there is one point which you have
left unexplained. What became of the hound when its master was in
London?"   "I have given some attention to this matter and it is
undoubtedly of importance. There can be no question that Stapleton had
a confidant, though it is unlikely that he ever placed himself in his
power by sharing all his plans with him. There was an old manservant
at Merripit House, whose name was Anthony. His connection with the
Stapletons can be traced for several years, as far back as the school-
mastering days, so that he must've been aware that his master and
mistress were really husband and wife. It is suggestive that Anthony
isn't a common name in England, while Antonio is so in all Spanish or
Spanish-American countries. The man, like Mrs. Stapleton herself,
spoke good English, but with a curious lisping accent. I have myself
seen this old man cross the Grimpen Mire by the path which Stapleton
had marked out. It is very probable, therefore, that in the absence of
his master it was he who cared for the hound, though he may never have
known the purpose for which the beast was used.   "The Stapletons then
went down to Devonshire, whither they're soon followed by Sir Henry
and you. It may possibly recur to your memory that when I examined the
paper upon which the printed words were fastened I made a close
inspection for the water-mark. In doing so I held it within a few
inches of my eyes, and was conscious of a faint smell of the scent
known as white jessamine. There're seventy-five perfumes, which it is
very necessary that a criminal expert should be able to distinguish
from each other, and cases have more than once within my own
experience depended upon their prompt recognition. The scent suggested
the presence of a lady, and already my thoughts began to turn towards
the Stapletons. Thus I had made certain of the hound, and had guessed
at the criminal before ever we went to the west country.   "It was my
game to watch Stapleton. It was evident, however, that I could not do
this if I were with you, since he would be keenly on his guard. I
deceived everybody, therefore, yourself included, and I came down
secretly when I was supposed to be in London. My hardships weren't so
great as you imagined, though such trifling details must never
interfere with the investigation of a case. I stayed for the most part
at Coombe Tracey, and only used the hut upon the moor when it was
necessary to be near the scene of action. Cartwright had comedown with
me, and in his disguise as a country boy he was of great assistance to
me. I was dependent upon him for food and clean linen.   "I have
already told you that your reports reached me rapidly, being forwarded
instantly from Baker Street to Coombe Tracey. They're of great service
to me, and especially that one incidentally truthful piece of
biography of Stapleton's. I was able to establish the identity of the
man and the woman and knew at last exactly how I stood. The case had
been considerably complicated through the incident of the escaped
convict and the relations between him and the Barrymores.   "By the
time that you discovered me upon the moor I had a complete knowledge
of the whole business, but I hadn't a case which could go to a jury.
Even Stapleton's attempt upon Sir Henry that night which ended in the
death of the unfortunate convict didn't help us much in proving murder
against our man. We'd so, and at the cost of a severe shock to our
client we succeeded in completing our case and driving Stapleton to
his destruction. That Sir Henry should've been exposed to this is, I
must confess, a reproach to my management of the case, but we had no
means of foreseeing the terrible and paralyzing spectacle which the
beast presented, nor could we predict the fog which enabled him to
burst upon us at such short notice. We succeeded in our object at a
cost which both the specialist and Dr. Mortimer assure me will be a
temporary one. A long journey may enable our friend to recover not
only from his shattered nerves but also from his wounded feelings. His
love for the lady was deep and sincere, and to him the saddest part of
all this black business was that he should've been deceived by her.
"It only remains to indicate the part which she had played throughout.
There can be no doubt that Stapleton exercised an influence over her
which may've been love or may've been fear, or very possibly both,
since they're by no means incompatible emotions. At his command she
consented to pass as his sister, though he found the limits of his
power over her when he endeavoured to make her the direct accessory to
murder. She was ready to warn Sir Henry so far as she could without
implicating her husband, and again and again she tried to do so.
Stapleton himself seems to have been capable of jealousy, and when he
saw the baronet paying court to the lady, even though it was part of
his own plan, still he could not help interrupting with a passionate
outburst which revealed the fiery soul which his self-contained manner
so cleverly concealed. By encouraging the intimacy he made it certain
that Sir Henry would frequently come to Merripit House and that he
would sooner or later get the opportunity which he desired. On the day
of the crisis, however, his wife turned suddenly against him. She had
learned something of the death of the convict, and she knew that the
hound was being kept in the outhouse on the evening that Sir Henry was
coming to dinner. She taxed her husband with his intended crime, and a
furious scene followed in which he showed her for the first time that
she had a rival in his love. Her fidelity turned in an instant to
bitter hatred, and he saw that she'd betray him. He tied her up,
therefore, that she might have no chance of warning Sir Henry, and he
hoped, no doubt, that when the whole countryside put down the
baronet's death to the curse of his family, as they certainly would
do, he could win his wife back to accept an accomplished fact and to
keep silent upon what she knew. In this I fancy that in any case he
made a miscalculation, and that, if we hadn't been there, his doom
would none the less have been sealed. A woman of Spanish blood don't
condone such an injury so lightly. And now, my dear Watson, without
referring to my notes, I cannot give you a more detailed account of
this curious case. I don't know that anything essential has been left
unexplained."   "He could not hope to frighten Sir Henry to death as
he had done the old uncle with his bogie hound." If its appearance
didn't frighten its victim to death, at least it'd paralyze the
resistance which might be offered."   There only remains one
difficulty. If Stapleton came into the succession, how could he
explain the fact that he, the heir, had been living unannounced under
another name so close to the property? How could he claim it without
causing suspicion and inquiry?"   "It is a formidable difficulty, and
I fear that you ask too much when you expect me to solve it. The past
and the present are within the field of my inquiry, but what a man may
do in the future is a hard question to answer. Mrs. Stapleton has
heard her husband discuss the problem on several occasions. He might
claim the property from South America, establish his identity before
the British authorities there and so obtain the fortune without ever
coming to England at all, or he might adopt an elaborate disguise
during the short time that he need be in London; or, again, he might
furnish an accomplice with the proofs and papers, putting him in as
heir, and retaining a claim upon some proportion of his income. We
cannot doubt from what we know of him that he would've found someway
out of the difficulty. And now, my dear Watson, we have had some weeks
of severe work, and for one evening, I think, we may turn our thoughts
into more pleasant channels. I have a box for Les Huguenots. Have you
heard the De Reszkes? Might I trouble you then to be ready in half an
hour, and we can stop at Marcini's for a little dinner on the way?"
THE END